The quotes I have seen, in order to get roof replacement plus solar, with same total output, the solar tile/shingle option has still been more expensive by a decent margin. I bet in 10 years it will be the way to go but not quite there yet.
No different than 50,000 roofing nail holes if on a composition shingle roof. If done correctly there wont ever be a leak due to installation. That said, if I had the money and the solar shingles last basically forever I would go that route. I put new 25 year shingles on in 2011 and panels in 2016. This is good enuf unless I win the lotto!
Even cement tile roofs still need the underlayment changed after 10-20 years. I'd plan for a reroof every 25 years. Removing and replacing solar tiles is gonna be costly should things bust or need replacement. Getting solar tiles to match I think will be a huge problem. I'm all for conventional roof and off the shelf commodity solar panels.
I think the only way I'd go with solar shingles/tiles (Tesla, GAF or other) would be if:

1. I had no room for ground mount.
2. An HOA or Government entity telling me that I CAN'T add standard panels to my roof.

Even for a limited space, stand alone panels can have a higher output per foot\^2 than Tesla or GAF (at least by the latest numbers I've seen).

Personally, I'd be inclined to install a standing seam metal roof NOW.  And then as soon as possible install the best panels available.  You CAN install panels on a standing seam roof without additional roof penetrations.  Although if you're in Kali there's no telling how badly the owners of the Governor (i.e. the electric companies) are going to rape home installs of solar power in the future.
What has you "stumped" specifically?
Just got off the phone with them. It will be U series panels and i7 enphase inverters
When folks say sunpower panels, do they mean these panels? What are the different series in them? U series? M series? Maxeon ?
Still the iq7x version? Not an iq7 Plus for example
Sunpower now has all of their panels made by other companies. Maxeon used to basically be sunpower. Now Maxeon has for intents and purposes broken off as its own company but still makes the M series panels for sunpower. The e, x, and u series panels are made by other companies and labeled for sunpower. In some cases that's Rec or Q cell or Canadian solar that is fine as long as you know, in other cases that's something like waree you don't want.  Historically when people said SunPower panels, they meant the M series by maxion.
Yeah sales rep only said IQ7. I asked for a specific name and he said they don't follow enphase's naming so it's just called IQ7
Got it. Thanks for explaining that. Are M series much better than U series? Does it make sense to upgrade those and pay more? Or is it fine to be with U series and save a few $$
He has no clue. Iq7 is a series (Iq6, iq7, iq8), the model in that series defines its max output (iq7+, iq7a, iq7x, etc).
The good news is that SunPower from all the quotes I've seen them pair  their M series panels with the iq7x, so often they will pair their U series with the same one which is a top bin model. That said, they really should be able to tell you exactly which model of inverter you're getting in the iq7 series.
This is the most wtf of the whole pitch, iq7's have a pretty decent range of prices and abilities depending on the sub model. Wild
Depending on the amount of $$.  If you are going from 405 REC u series to 420 m series Maxeon and massive price jump then no.  If you have 405w Canadian solar and the other option is 440w Maxeon m series and the price difference is negligible, then sure!
Found this online
https://enphase.com/store/ac-modules/sunpower

He also said they use the type H IQ7 inverters
Lol my contract says 22x waaree energies Ltd panels. Should I bail tf out of this ?
Iq7hs is great, no issues with 384w
They should just say they don't know, it'll be matched to the panel if it's factory mounted so wouldn't worry about it, just sales people living up to expectations I guess
Did you sign it? If you haven't signed it yet, I would tell them that you want to be changed to Q cell or Canadian Solar Panels. Or you won't sign it. If you have already signed it and that's a different conversation
Haven't signed it yet. I messaged my sales guy that we have to talk.
https://imgur.com/MBKdODc

link has all the specs in the contract
All of that looks good except the panels.
Can you sketch a schematic for us please? Panel arrangement is useful info. Shall we assume all panels are in parallel with series blocking diodes? Or two  four - panel strings in parallel with each other? Or eight panels in one string?
I'll get one made tomorrow to the best of my ability - although even after googling and learning about bypass and blocking diodes just now, I'm not sure I'll be able to recognize what I have.

I believe it's two four panel strings in parallel with each other. There are two sets of four panels, and both are wired to the same electrical box that then connects to the inverter.

Within each set of four panels, there's just one incoming and outgoing wire to each panel (black), plus a longer wire that connects at the first and fourth panels (white), as seen in the picture linked below.

https://ibb.co/Nx5tcxQ
If you’ve been lurking for a while, you’ll remember one of our Redditors that was recently mystified why one of his strings was back - biasing and turning off his other string because he wasn’t aware of the need for blocking diodes. What an opportunity to learn from others! :o)
That installation looks super sketchy.  
I would not trust that in even moderate wind loads unless you have more engineering documentation.
Can they provide the engineering sign off for your wind conditions? Other ballast mounts I have seen allow for increasing the ballast for high wind conditions.
I've used concrete blocks to anchor non-penetrating satellite dishes (up to 1.5m diameter) on flat rooftops.  Just use at least 50% MORE than you think you'll need, especially if your prevailing winds will be hitting the back side of the panels.
I'd prefer ground screws and helical piles, no concrete,  high wind tolerance. If only use ground ballast for small temporary setups in low wind conditions
Never seen that type. I’ve done millions of 32 lb blocks. Looks like it could fold laterally with the right wind. You might want to put an aluminum angle brace between them. And a stable base that won’t settle.
I was going to say go for it, it will work great… until I looked at your picture.

That angle is very steep. That’s going to catch a lot of wind.
Solar
Only sure way to know is to look at the imprint on the back.  Get a copy of the invoice as it should have the details of what was shipped.
I might not agree on the “clearly two different panels” part.

The bottom row is installed landscape and the top row portrait. These are the same panels. Altough from this perpective they might look different, would you take a drone up and look at them in a straight angle they would look the same.

Just count the cells, columns and rows. Each panel has two halves of 6 columns with 12 rows each (seen in portrait mode).

Had you wanted a visually more even look, you could have chosen all-black panels.
Who installed it? Ask them. Show them the photo of two clearly different modules and ask why they’re different.
Yeah those panels are not the same.. stop saying they're because they're installed differently.
Whoa, anyone saying these are the same type of mods are solar blind or are the same salesperson who installed these. Would love to see a larger look at these, pull back photo.
The top ones look like the trinas
Call you’re sales rep or installer
They should have a tag on the back
Rectangles
Those are solar panels, I see them on roofs all the time.
Solar
They look like all the same panels to me.
Looks to be solar
Clearly not same panels. Anyone saying so probably works for the same company that installed

Edit: portraits up top look like Trinas. Landscapes look different. Sunglodpower 450 maybe?
It's only one panel. Looks like the right module, too. Might be the 510W as they have the same look
I can confirm that they are 100% Solar Photovoltaic Modules.

If you're wondering what manufacturer and model number the only real way to know is lift them up and look at the name plate that is found on their back side of them.
Panasonic?
Sunpower?
Get up on the roof and check the labels on the back of the panels. Use your phone to snap a photo.
 Besides them being solar panels, the bottom one could be LG
No I think wind panel.
Here for this👆
Dagnamit! That was my joke.
But please don’t do it yourself, op. Don’t waste a warranty
This is the correct answer OP. These look like the same modules to me. But since the back sheet is white they look different when in landscape orientation vs portrait.
This is correct ☑️.  ☝️
or just put a tape on them and measure.  They won't be the same height and width if they are different panels.
Dimensions look really different to me
That’s called perspective.
What is this?!  A school for ANTS!?
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=MMiKyfd6hA0
Correct again.
It’s not perspective they are clearly different in both size and pattern. It’s as simple as clicking on the picture and zooming in. Are you all blind?
Not blind, just seen a lot of panels on roofs, including ones that look night and day different when in portrait vs landscape. This is a shit photo on the internet so, ya, I guess you could make an argument that it’s possible that these are different mods. But I highly doubt it.
There’s your number one societal problem. Perspective. And the mess that comes from people only sticking to their own…
Count the cells columns and rows like the first response said - you will see the panels are the same.
No, they’re not. Completely different pattern, different overall size (L&W), different number of rows and columns total, different widths on each section, the white lines between sections are different thickness…. Y’all are crazy. They’re clearly different.
They absolutely have the same number of columns and rows.  The width looks different due to perspective, as a few others have said.  Count again.
No, you all need to see an optometrist
That's one heck of a home. Beautiful!
Beautiful home. I have not seen a quote from sunpower with 360w panels in a long time. Most I saw past 2 months have been 400 to 440w panels.
Get ready for a 0,5 kWh day during winter
In my experience I see about 20% production under full clouds. With especially dark rainy clouds this can go as low as 5%.

These percentages are all relative to what you would see vs. full sun given your latitude, panel orientation, and time of year.
Yep, and this is why staying connected to the grid is so valuable.
Do you have optimizers? I'm under the impression that optimizers are very helpful of some panels get shaded. We have 15.5 kw of panels with optimizers. I can't say I tell too much about clouds or trees shading couple panels throughout the day. 
Also cloudy days really do hurt production. Especially rainy days. There been a couple days of 1kwh throughout the entire day. Just barely enough to cover the operation of the inverter.
Looking at taking the plunge myself. Also in Florida, south central
I have bi-facial panels on a roof.  I have a 33.52kW system.  So far, in December, around noon in a sunny day, I'll see around 17kW.  We had pretty fully cloudy days the previous three and I was seeing about 7kW.  I was reading bi-facial panels really help when it's cloudy out and I think I agree with that.
I knew there would be bad days.  I always wonder what kind of production people are getting from their north facing panels in central Florida.
Yeah that's probably close to what I'm seeing.
I assume I don't but I've never heard of them.  Will have to do some research.
I have 22kw of bifacial on a ground mount and I get about 17kw right now when it’s sunny.  When it’s raining, it’ll go as low as 3-4kw max.

I dunno how you get any bi-facial advantage on a roof.  Seems like the rays wouldn’t get back there… 

If I could go back in time, I would’ve installed larger panels.  I got 460’s, wish I had gotten the 530w.
Depends on the pitch, of course, but in Florida a 25 degree north pitch panel will produce about 70% that of a 25 degree south pitch panel over the course of a year.  The steeper the pitch the worse it does comparatively; the flatter the pitch the better it does.
North works fine with 1:1 net metering just need more panels
Cannot help you with that, different continent and latitude
OP, you have Enphase microinverters, not optimizers like a Solaredge system has.

both are panel level power tracking to mitigate impact of shade and panel voltage mismatch that would otherwise have a greater impact compared to a traditional string inverter.
No, you have enphase microinverters. At least your monitoring looks like you do.
Mine is also probably set up differently. I have a string inverter. It sounds like you have micro inverters for each panel.
Easy to answer this one. Do you have enphase, solar edge or something else on the wall by your meter. This looks like Enphase monitoring. If so you don’t have optimizers, you have micro inverters which are debatably superior
Yep
Looks like both your installer and your plan inspector dropped the ball. What is the situation here, is there just one dormer window or are there more? Are the six panels next to the rear yard on a separate roof level?
why did the building inspecting grant the permit and sign off on the layout?  I would throw a fit at the building department.  If you were not aware, 90% of building department inspectors are imbeciles with napoleon complexes, and have no liability whatsoever even if something were to go wrong.  They have cozy schedules, dont answer to any superiors, and leach off the taxpayers dollar.  You really need to escalate to the nuclear option to get anything out of them.
A quick search seems to indicate that Oregon fire code (304.9.1) calls for 36” pathways as you mention. It also mentions that the pathways must be along three sides of an array and that if your roof pitch exceeds 2:12 that one side may not be on the bottom edge. https://iccsafe.org/wp-content/uploads/sehpcac/OregonSolarCode.pdf

This is all assuming your local city follows that state code. 

If you can find a configuration which meets the fire access needs but does not quite match fire code I’ve heard that you can ask your local fire chief to sign off on your layout and sometimes get passed that way.
Call the fire marshall and get a variance allowing it, then go back to the inspector.  Most firemarshalls are chill if you're chill.
Is the window the only one of that room?   Is there another window that can qualify as the egress window in that same room?
 If not, how wide is the window?   Could you rotate the panels and flank the window.
Take out the window, problem solved!
>Is there any available recourse I have as the homeowner in this situation? I don't want to have to put panels on the NE side of my house if I can help it.

Remove the two panels in front of the window?
If they follow 2021 IRC then it would require the 36" pathway for emergency access from the windows. Looks like all the panels on that roof will have to be landscape and will have lose two panels. Judging from the space you have on your roof you have maxed out your most efficient spaces so no other place to make them up that would make sense.

Edit: on second look, you might be able to get away with only one panel lost. If you swap the two portrait panels next to the landscape panels into one landscape panel, you could show a 36" pathway going north east. 

https://imgur.com/gallery/B2Q6Ubt

You don't really need 36" along all that side just from the window to a pathway off the roof. There is a chance the inspector will be a stickler and just ask for 36" but this technically meets the requirement.
looks like the plans had the panels right at the edge of the lower roof that would have given you 2'10".  that's probably an easy waiver, 12 inches is probably not enough
Honestly these fire codes do too much. Before you know it the panel layout is going to need to be ADA compliant with wheelchair access. 🙄
A bunch of code says 30" requirement not 36". Need to check your state. 
I wouldn't think they're up there with a tape measure either. Just that they can obviously see from ground that you're out of compliance
While it was not for solar, I put a new window in on a small house when I removed a deck and door (deck was unsafe, and small). My memory is that there are 2 issues with "escape path" that cause the width concern - safe exit, and safe access for fire crews for rescue. The equipment they carry/wear leads to the 36" requirement. For me, it affected window size/specs. So (while they screwed up here) there is a good reason for the size.
Yes, the six panels are on a lower roof tier. Two bedrooms are facing SW and have windows above the lower roof tier.
It’s possible the plans didn’t show window placement
No secondary windows for the two bedrooms on this side. I may be able to rotate the panels on the southeast side, but I think I would have to drop from 4 portrait oriented panels, to two landscape oriented panels, and the fire egress path would increase to 34", not 36"
If your roof has tiles or shingles, there's an easy visual reference that you can see from the ground that might make the difference between 30 and 36 inches more apparent than you'd expect.
Your installer should have never put panels on that roof. It’s egress for fire safety/fire escape. I’m in NJ and this would NEVER pass code unless the inspector was sleeping. You’re entire array/production could be affected. I’m seeing atleast 6 panels that need to be moved to the NE side of roof(by NJ standards).
Okay, so where exactly. How do the window openings line up with those six panels. Anyone would need to know before offering any suggestions.
Guessing this, or the plans didn't indicate that those rooms were bedrooms. But yeah, definitely should have been caught long before installation.
My finding is that generally these inspectors don't care in most places- as long as you're not obviously out of compliance like this guy. 
But maybe since they've failed once
There's a window above the two landscape oriented panels, and a window above the two portrait oriented panels.   


https://imgur.com/a/4OHPqAj
Easy fix, can't believe your installer messed this up.

Just move the fourth portrait panel from the right to the other side of the two landscape panels. The escape path for the window on the right goes straight down to the edge of the roof. The one for the window on the left moves along the wall and joins with the one for the other window.

Just make sure the paths are 36" wide throughout.
I'd follow what /u/e_l_tang said, but it also doesn't look like they put the 2'10" space between window and panel either.  The plan says 12" fire path, but that's not right either (as /u/e_l_tang says, it's 36").
Yeah, this is what I'm concerned about. If they're complete sticklers about having 36" , I may only be able to have two landscape panels across the entire lower roof tier.   


I don't want to be in a situation with my installer where I have to fight to get the panels moved to the NE side and not face additional cost
Ah, yeah, maybe. Looks like that portrait panel might need to be dropped and a gap opened between the landscape panels in that case.

u/Wifite
You might not have to move them to the NE side.  Looks like you have space to wall mount 4-8 panels around the windows, probably with a better angle incidence to the sun.
That is quite a nice and novel solution that I wouldn’t have thought of. 👍
Both proposals seem pretty high to me (B is absurd). Have you gotten quotes through a service like Energysage?  If not, I'd highly recommend doing that to at least see some additional quotes before you decide. I think you can save quite a bit.
Honestly I would get more quotes.  Company B is trash, that's a rip off quote TBH.  6.4kW system and no batteries for $38k is a joke.  You could buy two of that size system for that price.

Company A is better, but still pricey.  You didn't mention if these are cash or finance?  If cash, not great, but because of the size of your system, it's a little more understandable (economies of scale).

Why is A sizing your system to like 75% of your current usage?  And you have plans to add more loads, so shouldn't we be seeing a system that produces like 10,000kWh or something like that?  I noticed you mentioned you have a limit with the utility company, but can add more later?  What does that mean?  Like the utility will only let you add more panels if you show more usage over the past 12 months or something?  Kinda a rock in a hard place because it doesn't make sense to do this whole project twice.  Going to cost you way more money because of said economies of scale.

Also another note, you said you weren't planning on adding production for your future EV because your wife can charge at work.  I would highly recommend you add at least a buffer for the EV because

1. Nobody works at the same place forever, so I wouldn't rely on just being able to charge at work full time
2. More EVs are coming, so your wife may not always be able to find a charger at work
3. What if you go on a weekend trip and can't even make it back to work to charge?  If you do that often, you're eating that expense at home

Point being, don't cheap out.  You're already getting solar.  Add the EV usage into your system, pay for it once and get it free from the sun 100x over.
Being in industry for over 9 years, I remember when REC was much better in the past. Q Cell 400 and IQ8+ are what I have on my new home, installed 1.5 years ago. If you are truly expecting the larger usage each year, get the larger system now. Every aspect of the installation will be more expensive down the road. 10 years ago I would go with the biggest and best companies cause they had the install technology, but now everyone has access to the same tech. Definitely look for quality reviews but understand anyone can get good reviews from Google or Facebook. When I request quotes from other tradesman I always use my gut to decide on the people to trust. You know who that is and trust your intuition. Both of the systems look over priced. If the guy was screwing it up from the beginning thats a sign to me they will screw it up later on. Since there are millions of solar companies get a few more quotes, take notes and ask questions. If they pressure you they are showing you who they are. Lastly the state you are in will influence the price.
Both quotes are problematic.  Get more quotes and negotiate.  

Company A seems to be undersized at 4.8kW, and I'm iffy on the Northern Electric micros wrt the company being around in the long-run.  Price is slightly too high.

Company B is just way too high.
Avoid REC, their warranty sucks, we had several dead panels and they made us go to the sites 3 times and then their stupid packaging requirement. It cost us more than just buying new panels on day 1, and the customers would have been happier too.
Where are you located and who is your electric utility? 

In my (limited) experience, there might be limits on system size in kW, but not necessarily in number of panels. So it seems like you might be getting some confused or misleading information. It doesn't make sense for an installer to tell you that your utility limits you to 12 panels, but that you can add more later. 

I agree with others that the Company B proposal is highway robbery, and I agree with those who suggest getting quotes through EnergySage for comparison purposes. 

Regarding the hardware, personally I have had REC panels with Enphase microinverters for most of the past year and I've had very few problems. One of my microinverters died shortly after installation but my installer replaced it within a week with no fuss.
Here's something useful [Evergy Solar & Net Billing Program information](https://www.evergy.com/-/media/documents/smart-energy/private-solar/solar-customer-interest-evergy.pdf)

Regarding the size limitation, their are two options.  
The first limits the DC kW based on the last 12 months usage and on the preferential 1:1 Net Metering billing plan.  It for the most part is trying to match up historical usage and solar production.  There's no exception for expected future increases.  For OP, using the provided 7354 kWh comes to just over 6 kW DC max.  

The second option has a less favorable Parallel Generation billing plan, but it allows sizing up to a max 100 kW DC for residential.  Under this plan there's greater emphasis to load shift to the middle of the day to use energy produced by solar and minimize exports.  

Modeling this larger system is trickier and has more uncertainty with changes in future use and I could see a situation where the larger system under this plan could yield a similar financial benefit as the smaller system on the other plan.  

Another strategy would be to wait on getting solar for 6-12 months, during that time artificially use more electricity simulating the additional loads and add the new electric stuff along the way, then add the bigger solar and return to usual usage.  You take a hit in the short run but then get a system suited to the future increased use under the better rate plan.
Awesome, thank you.
We'll be financing. 

Our energy company bases the allowance off usage history. (Last year our usage was mid 6K as we were living elsewhere for career reasons.) Every company I spoke with referenced this, FWIW. 

I forgot to mention the $38K includes an electrical panel upgrade and installing two outlets outside. The $19K does not.
How long ago was this? Did an RMA with them a few months ago and it was easy. First RMA I’ve had with them in 1,000s of panels deployed too.
We are in Missouri and Evergy is our electric company.
If financing, A isn't too bad a deal, generally speaking.  Usually about $4/watt if financed is fine.

That sucks your utility doesn't let you upsize.  That's a hassle TBH.  Can you not give them an explanation that you have plans in the near future to increase load and that the bigger system is for that?

Still a terrible price.  The solar system should be like $20k cash.  So maybe close to $30k financed.  Electrical panel, maybe $4k.  I'm assuming NEMA 14-50 outlets?  2 of those should be under $1.5k.
This year. We had an issue with one as well, same after 1000s installed, now we are already down 8. We also installed 1000s of Trina's, SilFab, .. and zero down. We're now just too scared to install them, unless specifically customer requests, we won't offer rec anymore.
Heat pump based water heater in the garage can help cool it a bit.
FYI, for your true-up date, you can request a one-time change. 

Congrats on your productive solar year👍
Great to know! For backup, why would you prefer a generator than adding home batteries since you already got solar?
Curious how you had no bill each month? I still had to pay the taxes on overnight draws from the grid and the daily connection fee. I'm also on NEM 2.0, similar size system, similar install date, and similar net generation.
I’m in Bakersfield and Pg&e. My panels haven’t started producing yet. The final inspection was done yesterday so waiting for the green light on connection.
Great info, thanks for sharing.
So did you owe them money? It’s not clear.
My water heater is currently a gas-powered unit in the garage, although I have looked into hybrid WH heat pump designs in the past. So it's not affecting my kw at this point. Please expand your thoughts...the heat pump mini-split doesn't seem to be a big factor so far in terms of kw usage.
HPHW is the next logical step after solar install.  Pays for itself in a few years, cuts your carbon footprint.
So my PTO was 22 Dec (2022) so we’re close to our TrueUp for the first year. 

What’s the advantage to have my TrueUp in April / May rather than when I am now?
Thanks! You know, I forgot about that. I

l have to do some calcs to see if maybe a Jan, Feb, or Mar might be better!
Very good question. Enphase wanted $9300 for their Daylight Backup and I thought that was just way too much for what you'd get out of it. And the battery backup they quoted was as much as the $30k for the whole PV system we bought, so we opted for the 10 circuit transfer switch method since we had a RV Onan 5500 genset sitting about 10 feet from the panel. I can  run just about the whole house (less AC and SPA) with that amount during a grid-down event. Eventually we will probably get batt backup, but at this time it didn't make sense.
This was due to the fact that we had received a climate credit the bill prior and with the exceptional production, we were still working that off.
I don't know how much clearer I could have made it, but no- we did not owe them. But what was a credit account balance of $-787.30 turned into only a $-258.03 credit balance after they credited us for the over-production (the $220.49 credit). The rest was some Nov 2023 production woes due to weather and us hosting Thanksgiving here at the house with a couple of RV family guests.
HPWH are pretty efficient.  You are a perfect candidate since you live in Socal where the weather isn't crazy cold.  Your typical HPWH, when running in HP mode will use about 3kWh/day for a 50G tank.  You're looking at about 1,000kWh/year usage for heated water if you're the typical household.  If you're going to get a hybrid HPWH, you need 2 spots in your breaker panel to support that.  But typically, you wouldn't be using the heat strip backup all that much unless you really are taxing your heated water.

We have a 120v plug in only HPWH.  So no 240v heat strip backup.  Works perfectly fine for our family of 3.  I bought an 80G tank just to be sure we wouldn't run out of hot water since with the HP only, I can't recoup water nearly as fast as with the backup heat strip on a hybrid model.

I made a review earlier this year on our model if you're interested in seeing it or to get more details on a 120v only model.  No electrician needed since it plugs right into any wall outlet.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hT6TaU4J6QA
I installed my HPWH last year and it uses about 3 kwh of energy per day. But I live in Utah so it's colder in the winter and is less efficient cause it's in my basement. I think a hybrid water heater is pointless. Commit and go all the way or don't. I couldn't be happier with mine tbh, it's awesome.
 If you're paying at true-up or near zero there's no advantage other than if another date feels more convenient.  

It can be an advantage if you're overproducing ending the year with a relatively large true-up credit.  the Net Surplus Compensation is valued lower at wholesale rates per kWh, not retail rates.   Note, having a surplus like OP isn't common but for those that do, some feel they'd rather use it than send it to the utility, or being a beancounter wrt to ROI.

 If ending with a large-ish Net Surplus Compensation one might want to have the true-up date set following a couple months where they can freely and easily use more electricity to deplete the excess to get closer to a zero true-up.  Though, arguably this strategy may just be unnecessarily wasting electricity, and can run the risk of paying if the increased use is more than the excess.

If the true up is in April, then during winter one might run electric heaters rather than gas heat.
Or if set to sometime in September/October, run the A/C a couple degrees cooler during the summer, or be less worried about running things during the 4-9 peak.
An advantage to starting in December if you are at or around 100% offset under NEM 2.0 is that you start in a deficit which means no minimum charges for up to 6 months.

That can easily save you $50-$70 per year.  You can have the same exact consumption pattern with your True-Up in April, and you will pay those additional charges because you start out with a credit.

Unfortunately on SDG&E I can't change mine from May, but if I could, I would change it to Nov/Dec/Jan.  I'd have to do a detailed analysis to figure out which one.

IMO keep your current date.
Awesome. 

My first settle up is in April. I hope i don’t owe
I came across your video a couple months ago and wanted to say thank you for putting it together! Didn’t even know these existed before then. 

I’ll be getting mine installed later this month (and I can’t believe golden state rebates still haven’t updated their eligibility list to include these 120v models :/  )
Yes, indeed they are and you are exactly right. Eight years ago I invested in a true HPWH not a hybrid and have been satisfied from inception to present. They were a bit expensive eight years ago though, but my concern was similar to yours. Getting a HPWH that does not require any electrical upgrades. Just a plug into the outlet and away we go. In my case I had to change my breaker to a 15 amp which was crazy because my DHWT required a 30 amp breaker. I went with the Accelera 300 E 80 gallon Heat Pump Water Heater by Stiebel Eltron. What I like best about it is that no need to worry about setting timers and vacation schedules. It is smart to know when water is being used or not and it has excellent insulation. In addition, because the evaporator is self-cleaning no filter is required. One less thing to worry about. 

 It's worth noting that while heat pump (hybrid) water heaters offer several advantages, they may have some limitations. For example, they require sufficient space for installation, and their performance can be affected by ambient temperature fluctuations. Additionally, they may have higher initial costs compared to conventional water heaters.
I have the Rheem ProTerra 80 gallon. It uses a single 30amp double pole breaker, so it’s 240v. I run it in heat pump mode exclusively and have my temperature set points ranging from 110 degrees up to 140 mid day until 4pm. I also have a hot water recirculating pump attached. It uses about 3-4kw per day. Got it installed last year when CA had a huge $3100 rebate that went direct to the approved installer, $2200 installed, the 65 gallon would have only been $1300 out the door
We have a hybrid and I actually find it very useful with a household of four (and a 66-gallon tank). Most of the time we have pretty moderate hot water use and it can recoup just fine in heat pump mode, but if we have several back-to-back showers, it needs the boost from the electric mode to recover the water temperature quickly. You can set it to run on heat pump only, though, so it's possible to switch it based on needs. (Right now ours is set to minimize peak electricity use, so it goes back and forth depending on both how much water we're using and what time it is.)
I've seen this mentioned before, but not sure I understand it. PG&E levies a daily minimum delivery charge every billing cycle based on the number of days in that period (and it has to be paid in full every billing period) independent of what the NEM balance is. They credit you for the charge at true-up if your NEM charges end up being more than the total minimum daily charges for the year. Does SDG&E just do that differently? At least for PG&E, not seeing how you would save any money with a different true-up period because they're using the annual total either way. (I guess if you are a net generator and take your true-up payment as a billing credit vs. as a check, you wouldn't have to make a payment yourself because you'd have a credit applied to the account--but still not an actual savings in what you pay at the end of the day.)
I guess I just have trouble justifying it because temporally, it's the same Dec-Dec and May-May.  
  
We're sized 150% because the original plan was to get 2 Lightnings and convert our HVAC to a heatpump. But Ford molested our reserve price and it ballooned to $80k so I noped out of that. The HVAC plan got put on hold as well so we should have a large excess.
SDG&E will soon allow a one-time true-up change, following what SCE and PG&E are doing now.  Not sure of timing when you'll be able to, but that's noted a couple weekes ago 11/30/23 in the cpuc resolution.

thanks for the info on minimun charges, wasn't aware of that 👍
Yeap....I was just glad to see that our system was over-producing because just like taxes- I NEVER want to owe more than what was already given to them! If that means they get to bank a bit of my money, so be it.
Glad it helped!  Yeah they are pretty new and not very well known at this point.  Up until like 2 months ago, you couldn't even buy these units at big box stores.  So the DIYers were seeing my video and all mad they couldn't go pick one up and install.

The big plus for me was not having the hard wire in the 240v breaker.  Our panel is full and I wasn't going to spend more money to do a subpanel upgrade on top of having to find an electrician to wire up the unit for me.
Wow!  8 years with a HPWH?  How's yours holding up today?  How much more life do you think you can get out of it?
I may have misunderstood hybrid in this context. My brain was thinking it was a heat pump with a gas heater if needed, but I'm not realizing you mean heat pump with resistive electric hybrid. Which is what I have also, so I'm retracting my previous statement and endorsing hybrid because as your point out here, it's great for high consumption.
Hmm, now I'm actually confused.  I switched off EV-TOU5 to EV-TOU2 3 months ago, Sep I got a minimum charge of $11.02 for 29 days, Oct again a minimum charge of $11.02 for 29 days, but my last bill had no minimum charge, even though I have over $1k in NEM credits so my energy and distribution charges were credited.

Not sure what to think now, lol.
This has been removed.  From the sub rules: "The Community Promo Post at the top of the sub is the *only* place in the sub to discuss your site / blog / videos / business / etc.  Trying to end run this rule in any way will result in a ban.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
>Yeah they are pretty new and not very well known at this point.  Up until like 2 months ago, you couldn't even buy these units at big box stores

What are your thoughts when time comes to fix something in these HPWH?

Will you have to call a HVAC tech if the compressor needs replacement?
Ah, got it. Yes, for water heaters, hybrid just means it has both the capacity to operate as a heat pump and as a standard electric water heater. Ours has a button (and an app) where you can toggle between the modes based on preference, though we generally run it on hybrid where it decides for itself which to use. The app for ours is pretty clunky but even with that, I can prioritize less electricity use (it links to our TOU rate plan with our utility) or more hot water. We do occasionally run out of hot water if we have, say, four back-to-back showers, so I don't think a pure heat pump water heater would work well for our household--hybrid seemed like a good compromise since we wanted to move off of gas.
PG&E resets your true-up period if you switch rate plans--does SDG&E do that? Maybe that could be in play, if so?
Well hoping it doesn't die to begin with lol.  Use until end of life and get a new one.  The app does tell me the health of the compressor, so at least I'll have a heads up on when I need to start making moves.

I would probably start with the plumbing company since they installed, and then go from there.  Maybe I will need my HVAC guys to come out and look at it depending on what the plumber says.  We have a HP HVAC also, so I have an HVAC guy already too.
No, no reset.  True-Up month is the same.

One thing I can see is in Nov I was a net consumer of kWh, as opposed to Sep and Oct where I was a net generator.

Looks like around April I'll be back to net generation, so I'll find out then.

In regards to this thread though, my original suggestion is moot.
No, the middle clamp should hold both of the panels.
Call the installer back,  this work is piss-poor. It takes no extra time to get the clips on correctly and they just didn't.
Each panel should be secured with 4 clamps. This install is horrible.
Have them correct the wires dragging on the roof, too. In a few years, that will wear down and expose the copper. It should be in conduit when spanning between modules.
Horrible installation
A “mid clamp” is used on each rail in between panels. Typically there’s 2 rows of rail per panel unless you’re in a heavy snow load area. 

Those clips should engage both panels. These are installed incorrectly. The rest of the mid clamps and end caps would need to be loosened and those two panels pushed closer together for the mid to bite both panel frames.
That wire laying exposed on the roof is a no no, I think a bunch of rookies installed you
Too close to flu will likely cause shading and zero out your output depending on the type of inverter. Pv wire cant just lay on the rooftop between arrays, needs to be in conduit and have a ground wire between arrays (I'm in the usa local laws may apply). Module end/middle clips look like all mid clips and not attached properly, don't want your mods to blow off in a windstorm. 

It's not terrible if you paid absolute lowest cost but it isn't right. It is enough to make me worry about other parts of your system too though.
Just careless shoddy work. Have the installer come back and fix it.

It not, you can fix it yourself. Loosen the bolt and the clip, push the panels together and make sure the clip is on both panels. 

They look flush, so it’s just carelessness. Of course don’t attempt if you’re not comfortable doing it
Sure if you paid an illegal retard to install it!\~

Mid clamps are supposed to be torqued on the PV Panel frames, they have self grounding clamps as well which in this situation isn't grounded. Thanks for the good laugh!
Hurt my eyes looking at this abomination of an install. Get those mods pulled up and new racking installed properly at minimum. Also what’s up with the landscape rows? I don’t know if that was simply an aesthetic choice on your part which is totally fine but if not and this was installed per the planset, the designer should be ashamed. If your arrays were designed differently (most likely in portrait) than what is now standing on your roof these installers are even worse.
Cowboys.

A diyer doing it first time will do it better
They make end clamps and mid clamps. Every panel should have a clamp on every rail it sits on. Two panels butted up can share a mid clamp but the clamp needs to make contact on both panels. Every panel should have 4 point of contact securing it down. Not sure why they used mid clamps on the end as well. Only other thing to check for is hangers (dangling cables uncle the panel). You don’t want them touching the roof. We use zip ties or snap rack plastic clips. Either is fine for us here in SoCal.
make sure they don't walk on your panels when they come to fix
Thats a quick way to get a shattered panel!

Wind loads will lift and shattered the glass. Call them back ASAP.
Did you go for the best price possible with this install?
Why is there such a big gap between rows?
Absolutely wrong. Those mid clamps need to support both panels. let the company know of this. They are at risk of wind taking the off
What do you think?
Lol not right at all
What is the bottom of the panel looks like ?
It looks to me like the installer forgot to get midclamps and is just using end clamps everywhere.
According to MCS regs, Horizontal panels should have vertical rail and be clipped at the top and bottom.
Loosen the skrew, push, fasten. 5 minute fix
They have also used mid clamps in place of end clamps at the edges of the array they need swapping out as those are designed for the middle of two panels like everyone is saying. The mid clamps need to straddle two panels  edges so the panels need pushing together properly and re-fixing.
Wind and go. The wrong holder, don't pay forbthis crap.
They brought the wrong size mids to the job
Why did they install the 1 solar panel so close to the vent stack instead of installing it on the bottom right?

Wires not in conduit.
Wires touching roof and not secured.( Over the years, wind can blow the cable around and break. 
Mid clamps not fastend correctly.
Looks like midclamps are used for end clamps. (Not sure if that is an issue or the design of the rail system)

The quality of installation has me concerned with what we can't see 

If the junction box is properly installed 
If Footings properly installed
If grounding / bonding is correct 

I would ask the installer if they have photos of each step of the installation. 

Most of the stuff was already mentioned by other professionals.
Yup. They won't be getting paid until the job is correct.
What makes it particularly horrible? What should I be instructing the contractor to do in order to improve the installation?
incorrect unless massive snow loads 120ibs above

The mid clamps should not exceed 30% of the top and bottom of PV Panel
weather resistant wire is commonly laid bare in EU. where i live there is no regulation that forbids that.

never seen conduit for solar, it's an US thing and usually unnecessary.
I'm a business owner in PV and storage designs and engineering, that company shouldn't be in business!
Nope, it was the 2nd most expensive out of 6 quotes....
Those clamps do look like middle clamps to me so the installer just did it very very wrong
And to answer your actual question, this mid-clamps (clips) have been fitted incorrectly and should straddle both panels
I don’t think they’re mid-clamps. I think they’re end-clamps been bodged in
Shouldn't have to the lazy ass who installed it originally should have just done his job.
Also, the panels that could be touched from the skylight should be earthed and one panel looks too close to the flue, will it melt?
Then besides the clips, they'll also need to use conduit to span the distance between the rows of panels for the PV wire. And be sure there's no PV wire touching the roof on the underside of the panels. Zip tie it all up off the roof.
They need to push the panels closer to each other. Then use the clip. Poor workmanship.
At the very least use proper mid-clamps. Not end clamps.

To be within the letter of the law they should be using vertical rail, clipped top and bottom and no panel should be within 400mm of any edge, obstacle or window
Lack of regulation doesn't imply correct. I've seen these wires abraded by shingles, and open the circuit.
Damn…sorry to hear that. Mind sharing the provider?
If you look at the left side of the top clamp and the right side of the bottom. It looks like there is a piece that goes down to the rail.
Hard to tell from the photos but sort of looks like universal clamps but yeah not a very tidy install.
Agree, shitty job
Not zip ties. They won't last. They make stainless steel clips specifically for that purpose
This absolutely. Cable ties are fine. Out of the sun they will last for decades.
They're the proper clamps, just installed poorly.
Thanks. These guys are MCS accredited so they should know this, right?
You can install in this orientation, clamps on the panel short edge. It just will have lower wind loading than with the rails the other orientation. If that is a problem depends on the wind in this location. It will be in the spec sheets or install guide for the panels.

The clamps though, very wrong as you/others have said.
if you look at the shingles you would see that they are not abrasive. even with abrasive shingles, your cable's gotta be really shit and laid badly to be abraded like that. so maybe don't lay it so that it can be abraded. still no reason for conduit, especially not in this case.

your comment regarding correct is also incredibly dumb and arrogant as a reply to the statement that this is common in EU.
Not yet. They are coming back to site on Monday to have a look; if they make it right ans sort it out I think that's fair enough. We all make mistakes in our own work, its about how you handle it after and make it right.

So I want to give them the chance to make it right
Am thinking that too on closer inspection. They need rotating 90 degrees
Zip ties last if you use then correctly and use good brands, ive installed and seen 100s of arrays 10 - 15 years post install with zip ties holding up fine ( in canada with - 30+ lows and + 40 highs
I am not going to use zip tie to save a few dollars on a thousand solar system even if I know some good quality zip ties may last and not corrode. However, I do want to put zip tie for extra protection in case the metal hinge is corroded.
to me it looks like one of those in the picture may be an endclamp
They definitely should. Am an installer myself in England
They have UL listed zip ties for sun rated applications.  They also have sun bundlers, used more often in fields
Perfect, thanks for the advice. I'll speak with the project manager for the install to raise my concerns and ask him to direct the team to make rectifying actions.

I do worry with how much government grant money going around (particularly in Scotland) how many firms are springing up to throw in installs and not really care about their work.
Depends on what are your goals.

You can do a DC to DC system with a solar edge battery in this case you will need to move with the solar edge battery since SE is trying to shop using any other brand that does not belong to the Company (LG batteries)
You will use optimizers and the model will be decided based on the wattage of your pv panel.

I recommend REC 410 pure black or REC panels in general, Panasonic also have very solid models with great warranties.

The inverter that you will use It will also be decided on the number of panels that you will install, but with SE the most common inverter for batteries Is the 7600.

You can certainly go with other brands, Enphase for instance with Is the other residential brand. For this one you will a system with microinverters and a ac/dc battery (I would recommend to go with the 5p) the conversion between AC/DC Is not that bad so it's very efficient.
For this type of systems you the microinverters will be chosen based on the panels. For the models I gave you your micros would be either IQ8+ or IQ8M.

Lastly you have Tesla with this you have two options.
Installing the central inverter tesla with a power wall or go with a powerwall + (it's a bundle that includes the battery and the inverter all in one). With tesla you will have something similar to what you have with SE (DC/DC system).
The only problem is that since you are getting a central inverter you will not have optimization per module and no monitoring at module level.

Regarding what you ask I would recommend you to buy the material directly with the company they will give you the Number of the supplier so you can do your own Bill of material. However, if you are going to be the installer, they will force to take the online courses to be certified, since it is mandatory. The installation of the systems without being certified Will void the warranty of the product.


What I would do is buy the material and find a contractor/ electrician that the job. They will have to charge you just for the labour.

If you have more questions let me know.
By DC-DC EV charging do you mean for a usable EV or the just the battery pack?

SolarEdge is releasing a bidirectional EV charging with DC charging, and then DCBel has another option. 

But using a wrecked Tesla battery to power your house you may want to avoid SolarEdge or Enphase.

Both of those are going to their proprietary batteries. You might be able to build a 400v battery and hack the CAN bus to get a SolarEdge to work, but that's going to be next level hacking & reserve engineering. 

I'd go with a DC coupled solution like SolarArk, add your solar now and then build a 48V battery pack from the Tesla battery modules. 

Otherwise if you like SolarEdge or Enphase, then you an install that now and AC couple a battery inverter for your DIY battery. 

Contact your local CED greentech for equipment, there are websites out there but they have huge markups on equipment costs.
CED Greentech is a great option, I second that. SolarEdge is good. Their monitoring platform is one of the best around. I’d recommend a SE inverter, and in that case you’ll want to use SE optimizers, not microinverters. 

Also, if you want to have a DC coupled battery someday, microinverters are not the correct design choice since AC will be coming off your roof in that scenario. 

I want to bring these questions up for you to think about because they’re important, and not because I’m being a dick… but what are your qualifications for being able to design/install this system? Have you done any energy use analysis to size your system? Are you familiar with the NEC? Are you familiar with local building and fire codes? Who will be doing the engineering? Who will be applying for permits and interconnection with your utility? 

I ask these questions because in my state there’s a lot more that goes into an install than people realize and I see folks try to self-contract unsuccessfully often.
PW+s are weird in that they aren't actually DC coupled. They are basically a PW2 and a Tesla PV inverter combined. The battery and PV each have their own inverter. So PV charging the battery is DC-AC-DC.
Interesting, that makes sense. I would have thought that it's similar to what SE designs
Yeah you'd think. It was probably a business decision since they already had the PV inverter and PW2s.

I haven't looked into the PW3 enough yet to determine if it's a proper DC coupled solution or not.
I found that hard to read.  The important details/summary are:

Cost after rebates and incentives: $16,729.47

* 13 REC 405AA Pure black
* IQ8M
* 2 x IQ Battery 5P
* IQ System controller 3
* Estimated First Year Production: 7,785 kWh AC

Costs vary so widely that you should get at least 3 quotes and compare them.  Folks have posted quotes of $5k just for one IQ5P so 2 plus the solar for $16k (assuming you get all the incentives) looks healthy.

Not a large solar system, yet you have storage and off grid capability...... interesting, but I don't know what your goals are - e.g. long run time off grid, high peak loads, or if it's more about time of use rates when on grid.
That’s pretty good battery normally around 11k. 12k for 5.2kw system is about same price as years ago in socal
I wouldn’t quote less than 30k cash price for that set so it’s very reasonable, no idea if the company is any good, that’s more important than price, no good if they don’t support you
This looks like solar optimum quote...  And similar to my size.  I'm in California and the quote was 10k more if it's apples to apples.
Ca solar company owner, does your 5p batteries include back up abilities or are they just self consumption?
In FL with net metering 1:1. Backup as well.
Thanks. I may try and squeeze another one in if the cost factor is good enough for me.
Thank you for your feedback. Yes, I was saying the same when I saw 2 IQ5Ps for 11K and the 13 panels at $12,899.25 with total cost of $23,899.25 before incentives.

System Size  
5.265 kW DC  
CEC-AC Rating  
4.402 kW AC  
Estimated First Year Production  
7,785 kWh  
Panels  
REC405AA Pure Black (13x) Array details  
Inverters  
Enphase Energy Inc. IQ8M-72-2-US (13x)  
Consumption Offset  
107%

Battery Capacity  
10 kWh  
Operating Power  
7.68 kW  
Battery Mode  
Self Consumption  
Battery System  
Enphase Energy Inc.  
10 kWh: 2 IQ Battery 5P
Thank you. So are you inferring that the Solar panels maybe a bit high for the kWh size since the tech has improved for the better and pricing has fallen? Every little bit helps me to understand better and be a little more knowledgeable.
Thank you. They are REC certified which gives a little comfort knowing this and REC will stand by it in the event the company does not exist in a couple of years.
Wow! 10K more? Thank you very much for your input and comparison to your system.
In FL with net metering 1:1. Backup as well.
Looks like you have 4 less panels then I do
The only advantage I’ve heard for nmc is cold weather performance. Otherwise I think it was a decision of familiarity/supply chain more than technical.  

The battery weight on LFP can be tricky. Like the Franklin WH battery is 400lbs. That’s a bit tough to move without equipment.
No. It’s because LFP only recently came onto the market due to the expiration of Goodenough’s patents and only a few companies in China are manufacturing them.
Yes get an LFP battery. Tesla’s recently released 3rd gen powerwall is rumored to be LFP, like its grid-scale Megapack
Here’s a N/E/S/W install for both winter and summer at 40ish ° N. Something like a 6/12 roof pitch iirc, IQ8+ & 365W panels. 

https://imgur.com/a/8LAPvEB
I’m in Michigan with a similar situation and I noticed the same thing. I could see why some would say it is pointless to put panels on the N roof. But in the summertime (and on cloudy days) performance is almost the same as the south facing panels. In the summer having the extra panels has really made a difference, which is nice when the AC is running. And we still have enough excess to charge our EVs in the summer.
Can you please post that east side panel production too. Thanks.
So here are my N/S panels at 3 x this year. 

North is on a shallow roof so is a strong contribution in spring and summer and no worse some lower panels on the south in winter. 

A chimney messes with the panels on the bottom right south. 

About 42 deg N on the East Seaboard

https://imgur.com/0iU1UOY

https://imgur.com/cXJObbC

https://imgur.com/8Fxxtu4
I have north vs south arrays at my house. We are at 46deg north. 5/12 pitch. I have been doing the daily math on efficiency of panels on both sides. Full year round I get 77% of KWh on northside compared south side panels

One of the reasons north does as well as it does is the sun rises and sets north of the house 6 months of the year. Another reason is when it’s cloudy defused light has very little difference on production N v S. 

I have aptos micro inverters that also have a lower voltage start-up (capture more production at low light times) and they have a peak output of 400w so I don’t clip my 400w panels.
I'm at 47° and my 250W panels (detached from grid) pull in ~30W each, perfectly perpendicular to the sun. It's pretty bad in the winter.
Roof pitch matters a lot. N roof must be pretty shallow for any meaningful winter production. Thanks for sharing.
I'm in the Tampa area and today (partially cloudy) my panels on the South roof generated between 1.26 - 1.6 kWh. On the North roof, essentially half of that.
I got only an east west facing roof.   Worth it ever?
What were you expecting???  If you live in the US putting panels on the north roof is like just pissing your money away.  Especially if that is a steep pitch.  Shame on the solar company for misleading you…
North facing arrays are a salesman scam
A 6 over 12 roof is roughly 26 degrees. Subtract the earth's winter solstice tilt of 23 degrees from 90, also minus 40 degrees north and you get 27 degrees altitude of the sun at solstice, roughly. So the sun is coming in at 27 degrees, while the modules are tilted at 26 degrees on the other side. Subtract 27 plus 26 from 180 and you get that the modules are tilted 127 degrees *away* from the sun at winter solstice, well over the 45 degrees usually given for modules to work at all. Tilt back 46 degrees (2 X 23 degrees tilt) in summer and you still don't get there, not even in summer. The company that installed this array could not make this calculation, basic to the trade. This is assuming this plot is fully perpendicular to the north-south meridian.
The person installing that was a non-profesionalm there are software which does these kind of simulation so you don't  have to waste money on stupid ideas.
Friends don’t let friends install solar panels facing north (unless in the Southern Hemisphere).  Any one who sells north facing panels is the equivalent of snake oil salesman.
[removed]
Thanks for the info.  Gives me some hope for the west-facing add-on upgrade we're looking at doing.
Noth array not worth the effort or money, I would think
Summer roof: https://imgur.com/a/FHnlRZl

Winter roof: https://imgur.com/a/CHrTCQM
Fine if you like wasting money.
East is like 300wh a panel, west is 160s to 180s wh.
What made you decide on the Aptos (white-labeled Hoymiles) micros?
Yes. One gets rising sun directly. The other setting. You get a flatter peak to your solar production more ayers rock shape than Zermatt shape.
I'm 100% OK with this. ROI on the system was ~7 months sooner with the North panels, and I have a pretty low pitch to both sides of the roof. Mostly just I wanted to show how extreme it gets close to the solstice!
I don't see OP complaining. It just looks like a nice informational post so others know EXACTLY what to expect using a real life example. I might be missing something of course.

If you have a low pitch roof in Miami vs a high pitch roof in Maine there is a world of difference in use of north roof face expectations.

OP, what is your north roof pitch?  I see you say you are at 45 degrees attitude which is equal to northern Michigan for people to wrap their head around.
Why? I hit 150% production with it, and my roi on the system was ~7 months earlier with the North panels.
Depends a lot on goals. Not everyone is into solar for total maximization of every dollar spent. If you need a few north facing panels to meet your overall energy goals, is what it is.
"Your comment was removed by the reddit filter.  Try to avoid using URL shorteners anywhere on this site. reddit does not allow them and automatically removes all posts and comments using these types of links. Please resubmit your comment using the full URL. "

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
It all depends on cost
It seems to be producing (surprisingly) a lot even with steep roof.  Summer production should be higher

If extra panels are $1/watt, then 700wh/year (under 2 sun hours/day) is 21kwh over 30 years = under 5c/kwh
Usually during winter the north facing panels should produce almost as much as the south facing panels because of stray light from the atmosphere that has the same intensity in all directions.

So /u/Perplexy801's results are a bit astounding. I'm guessing that particular day in winter was sunny. (Edit: And the north facing panels had snow on them?) And it's a bit weird that the summer day has all panels producing roughly the same.

Edit:
>Noth array not worth the effort or money, I would think

I wouldn't say that. Many people don't have 1:1 net metering. So every bit of energy during winter can be worth a lot of money.

And since the north facing array isn't a separate install, it's often very cheap to install 8 more panels.
My north panels actually outperform south near the summer solstice. 29 degrees north. Still didn't quite find it worth it financially but it was close and fit my usage curve nicely so I went for it anyway.
Nice, thanks for sharing! I'm considering putting some panels on my north side for the same reasons
Thanks
I found out about them and realized that they are not just white lable hoymiles but aptos has a custom make. You can’t get hoymiles that has all the benefits or the aptos version of these. I am seriously very satisfied with them. I have a 28.4 kw system. Not 1 issue or error.
Awesome!  Glad you’re happy!  That is the most important part!
Your ROI would have sooner if you didn’t have north panels because the installed cost would have been cheaper.  Unless you pay like +$300/MWh for your energy the North panels should be a no go.  I do this for a living.
North facing solar panels are a waste of money and should never be pitched to someone (even a north sloping ground mount system is troublesome for economics).  You are happy to believe anything you want, however there are much better solutions to meeting your energy needs than ever putting north facing panels.  I don’t even recommend EW arrays except in very high energy price markets.


I have been doing this for a living for 15 years and have developed projects for some of the largest utilities and companies in the world.  No reputable company would sell or finance north facing panels.  It’s stuff like this that contributes to the sleazy solar salesman reputation.
Sure but with that little bit of input to them, the cost would have to be _very_ low to get them to break even.

EDIT: I guess it would depend on the latitude. Where I'm at, north-facing panels would almost never see direct sunlight hit them, maybe they would get a little bit in the late hours in the summer. If I lived further south then that would not be the case.
Something is off in the math here. 21kwh is not much power, like a few dollars worth at most.

I get 700 * 365 * 30 = 7,655,000 wh or 7.66 MWh total.

I think the price per kWh you calculated is correct.
I stand corrected. That's worth it.
What you say is somewhat correct for a place like Florida or the Southwest, but at 40* North latitude, there's little to nothing one can do that will make north facing panels ever pay for themselves.
Definitely not worth it; except in the summer (like you mentioned) the panels are at best going to produce 60% of their peak wattage.
They're manufactured by Hoymiles. Aptos has a fairly buggy custom firmware, yes. You may not see the issues across a couple dozen micros, but across thousands or tens of thousands, the trends really become apparent. I'm happy yours are currently functional!
See once again, "price", "economics", "waste of money" in your post. You are missing the point because it isn't about that for some.

If person A meets 80% of their power goals using their entire south facing profile, but they need to meet that last 20%...where are they going to go?

Some people blow an 25k on a luxury car over other options, some people blow an extra 25k on inefficient solar panels. Now am I going to do that? Hell no. I'd rather get more energy efficient X, Y and Z. But if people want to pay for it, fuck it. Their money.
All depending on roof pitch too. You’re looking at anywhere from 5-20 degrees (hardly north) in AZ. Go up north a bit where snow exists and all of a sudden north roofs are TRULY facing north. 

If I were to position a laser on a north facing roof I would expect it to point more north than directly up at the sky. That’s when I would say no go for panels.
730 * 30 or 2 * 365 * 30 = almost 22kwh per watt lifetime.
I'm at 50° North and people completely cover their roofs here.
I've had them about a year and they're at more than 70% of my south panels' production. Plus the summer is when I need more power the most.

I wouldn't have gone with them in today's market but it was legitimately very close to being worth it when 0.99% interest was available at 28% DF.
You do you.  It just doesn’t make sense.  You can get more efficient solar models like Maxeon on Topcon, you can replace appliances, with need more efficient models, you can add a small ground mount arrays.  North facing panels are equivalent to setting money on fire.
Gotcha. I was trying to figure out the total amount. You were figuring out the accumulation per rated watt on each panel. That makes sense.
It will depend on the net metering or feed-in-tariff.  If it's constantly cloudy/overcast there is little difference between north and south facing.

For those with net billing or feed-in-tariffs with a summer rate significantly higher than the winter rate, it also makes sense to have north facing panels.
I'm sure people do it. I advise all my clients not to.

Back of the envelope math, assuming an 8/12 pitch, at 45* north (furthest I usually go) a due north panel is losing 58-60% compared to a due south panel.

A flatter roof is slightly better than that, but you're still losing 40+% of the production due North versus due South.

Depending on your budget and your needs, you can put North facing panels even though you're very far from the equator. But in terms of economic efficiency, and return on investment, due north panels are not a good call when you're talking 40+ degrees latitude.
My man, read what I said maybe? I literally said I would not in favor of other things. But if someone needs a few extra panels to get to their net zero home and charge their cars, idgaf. 

Learn to read.
Yes, that's why my initial comment includes: "Many people don't have 1:1 net metering."

Here in Germany we pay 30 cents/kWh and get 10 cents/kWh.
>(furthest I usually go)

And do you go anywhere where they don't have 1:1 net metering?

Because if you can use the grid as a giant seasonal storage then north facing panels don't make sense. If you can't then it's suddenly a very different calculation.
Yes, I work extensively in California and I cut my teeth doing off-grid systems 2008-2014. I was just speaking in terms of ROI.

If your goal is to be off-grid, then every panel helps, but even then you still have to consider the input cost. An off-grid system is much more sensitive to run away costs, and inefficient panels are a drag on the overall system performance.

There's a lot of angles that you can point a solar panel, where it will never produce as much energy as you paid for it in terms of money or energy. In the Northern hemisphere, due North is the very worst production compass heading, and the losses are 40-60% at the latitudes you're describing assuming a 28-45* roof pitch.
( flat roofs and snowy climates aren't common, but that would be slightly less lossy)

If you need the energy, and you don't care about the cost, you can put North facing panels wherever you want. But when we're talking about a business or homeowner who wants to make an investment in their property, then you have to point the panels in the direction that makes the most money.

I sympathize with those who are pointing panels northward at your latitudes, because from what I'm seeing here, unless their roofs are basically flat, those panels don't pay off the energy it took to create them, or the money it took to get them installed, for 15-25 years.

However, I'm doing all this on scratch paper, and real life situations are individual. I don't want to advise anyone to not put solar panels on their roof simply because the roof faces North, but I do want to caution people that these panels are exceedingly economically and energetically inefficient, as compared to pointing the same panel toward the equator.
>Yes, I work extensively in California and I cut my teeth doing off-grid systems 2008-2014.

California had 1:1 net metering during that time.

I'm talking about regions where the kWh costs 30 cents from the grid and you only get 10 cents for excess sold to the grid.

Here in Germany balcony power plants are the hottest shit right now. You can get one with 4 panels that have 1700Wp in total for 620€. Let's say 800€ since the panels need to be installed.

If those are facing north then they're likely producing 400kWh per year. I'm basing that on the production of my south facing panels during November times 12. That would be 440kWh, so 400kWh sounds good for north facing panels.

Yes, during the summer that's mostly going into the grid as excess. So we're looking at 200kWh for 10 cents/kWh = 20€ for the 6 summer months and 200kWh for 30 cents/kWh = 60€ for the 6 winter months. So 80€ per year.

800€ divided by 80€/year is **10 years**.

The lifetime of your average micro inverter is around 15 years while the panels probably last 30 years. So even if the system needs 15 years to make its money back, you will still have a big black 0€ at the bottom of your calculation. But you only need a new micro inverter to keep going for another 15 years. So you will very likely have a good chunk of money in your pocket after 30 years.
A couple things my friend.

I worked in California building solar systems now. In the past, I built off-grid systems in the 2008 to 2014 period, mostly in South America and the Middle East, while working for the US government.

Both are off-grid systems, and for systems with poor net metering reimbursement, the efficiency of your panels is of the utmost importance, if you wish to make such a system return greater than your investment.

I don't know why your calculations are showing such high production for a North facing panel. In my experience, and looking at the guidelines used by the solar industry more generally, you should expect something like 200 watt hour production on a North facing panel, if the South facing equivalent was receiving 500 watt hours.

Your experience clearly varies, and I would love to know why. From everything I've ever done, seen, and been taught, there will be a much greater difference between a North facing and a South facing panel, worsening as we near the poles.

I can imagine is that If you had a huge amount of backscattered light, and if the panel was by facial, freestanding, and was there for able to receive a lot of light from beneath, you might be able to get better production than what my calculations are showing me.

Anyhow, I'm happy to be proving wrong on this, because it's a fascinating idea. However, where I am at right now, in Vermont, only the roof surfaces that face toward the equator are cooler. All the other roofs are still snow covered here. So in this real world example, we would be seeing zero or near zero production from all North facing panels, and fairly good production from the south facing ones.

When I was first learning how to design systems, one of my mentors showed me that you're basically wasting money if your panel faces past 90° east or 270° west. It's not that you can't produce energy with those panels, it's just that they don't produce energy at anywhere near the same intensity as do the panels which face toward the sun.

The analogy he used was like throwing a tennis ball at a wall. When the ball hits the wall straight on, you hear a lot of noise, and the ball transfers a lot of force to the wall. The impact causes a great transference of energy.

By contrast, if you throw the ball so that it hits the wall at an oblique angle, the ball will continue to travel in mostly the same direction, having imparted very little energy to the wall.

Photons impact the silicone wafer within the solar panels in much the same way. Oblique impacts, and especially impacts from behind, such as the backscatter which provides most of the light to a north-facing panel in the northern hemisphere, are much weaker impacts, and only in part a portion of the energy that a direct strike from a photon facing the sun receives.

Truthfully, my 40 to 60% additional estimates are going to be a bit high in any snowy area. You might see 20 to 40% of the production on a North facing panel in a snowy region, then you would see on a south facing panel, assuming a 45° sloped roof.

Anyway, please let me know what this product is that you're referring to, because I'd love to take a look at it. I don't think your calculations are realistic regarding the production of those panels facing to the north, but I'd appreciate learning something new.
I’ve installed hundreds and hundreds of domestic and commercial string inverters. If everything is done properly the roof work won’t need to be touched for 20+ years. The inverters fail after some time and take less than an hour to replace. I’ve also had problematic inverters, intermittent faults and straight up cursed locations. Lay lines or some shit. 

I’ve also installed 1000s of Solaredge optimisers. There’s been failures and faulty optimisers, mostly on commercial jobs but a few domestics. Most have been very easy to locate and replace, some have been a huge pain in the ass.
String was always the king. We also replaced tons of micros, sucks when they start failing.
Enphase has styles of IQ7 inverters that are modeled for installing with older m250 and m215 systems either as system expansions or replacements.
Good luck finding replacements?
You identify the under production modules, submit a claim, and they ship them to you.
They now have a 25 year warranty, older ones with 15 year I routinely replace right up the their warranty end dates.
I’m not a professional, but my understanding is that microinverters used to have a lot of reliability issues that have been significantly improved. Moreover, it’s unlikely that they all fail at once on a given system.
Modern micros have remote monitoring, so the installer can see exactly if/when they fail. 

APsystems DS3 inverters are by far the most popular up here in Canada, as they're cheap and reliable, and hold up well with harsh weather.

But yeah, micro inverter failures certainly aren't uncommon. Which is why going for the 25 year manufacturer warranty is a good sell IMO.
Installed a lot of SMA sunny boys 2015-2018, those things are beasts and never had issues except for Comms boards. 
Swapped to Apsystems yc600 micros, had a lot of truck rolls on micros going out within a year (rumor is Apsystems is a lot more reliable now) swapped to enphase and never looked back (for grid tied only) 
25 year warranty and their monitoring platform is A1, only issues there are comms, and those dang consumption CT’s, and the occasional “noise” in the lines.. 

NOW, as the industry transitions to hybrid and more ESS… it back to the string kings..
Sol-ark 15k ALL DAY. 
Battery agnostic, 200a pass through, generator ready, AC coupling easy. Built in charge controller, transfer switch, RSD, no sub panel needed. 

Enphase batteries are ridiculously priced, not to mention the smart switch, load controller, critical load panels, comms kits, ETC.. spending $2500 on additional equipment BEFORE labor, and before you start buying the actual batteries that are at least $500/kwh. 

Word of advice: no matter what market or where you live, get something that is at least battery ready if you don’t want batteries right now, you will.
And no, IQ8 does not count as “battery ready”
Not to mention that in the age of electric cars and backup batteries there are significant efficiency advantages to staying in high voltage DC rather than converting back and forth to and from AC.
We were a beta test shop for EnPhase. I’ve got an M190 system on my hone that I’m upgrading soon. Been building solar for 22 ish years. Micros are the way. Specifically EnPhase. Also, if a micro fails after 15 years, they’re under warranty and you just got another warrantied micro. Yes, a bit more labor to remove/replace but your whole system isn’t down.
Yes, hybrid Inverters with DC Bus through out is the more efficient system.  Use Optimizes for shading per panel. DC Bus is great for Battery and DC Air Conditioners.
String easier install, easier expandable, cheaper cabling
My preferred stack is Sol-Ark + APSystems Rapid Shutdown only.  Micros and DC optimizers came from a time when inverters only had 1 MPPT. But with 3 MPPT, the shade benefits are marginal.   The "low failure rates" and "when one fails the others keep working" arguments as well as "module level monitoring", to me, are more lipstick on a pig than real benefit.  MLPE would not normally win vs. string inverters, as they are more expensive.  Now with the advent of UL3741, they will face some string-level rapid shutdown competitive threat. However micros are going to be here for a very long time, the IRA manufacturer incentives have seen to that, which will trump any free market decision.   
  
Note: this is not a judgement against the IRA or a lament for free market economics. Just an analysis.
As mentioned string inverters are more cost effective for larger systems where there is no shade. The older micros were more prone to failure and that might account for the experience with 13-15 year old micros. In the past ten years I have had over fifty Enphase IQ7 inverters installed with only one failure.
What string inverters do you recommend?
Purely by the numbers so many more micros to fail and so much harder to access.  Sure enphase will get you a replacement unit it's still mantime to install.

String so many less and you can do repairs on weather days  when nobody should be walking on a roof.
What you’re missing is NEC 2017. Nobody is installing module level power electronics because they like them.
Installing 15 years. Not a fan of module level power electronics.
I am very happy with my IQ8H micros. 

But I have dynamically tilting panels, so I can replace one in five minutes should it ever be necessary.
String inverters typically require less maintenance and have fewer components to potentially fail.
On top of the obvious string inverter advantages, the impact on energy yield from micro/optimizers is highly overstated. To the point i would call it a blatant lie.

https://youtu.be/UQ9Szhl1ceQ?si=YsLJiW-Ei4hBrAeF
>We sold a lot of Solaredge and had a lot of failures.

So strings are bad?

>When we perform maintenance on a string inverter system, the only thing we have to check and replace are simple fuses.

So strings are good?

This sounds more like brand/model problems than string vs micro.
Well, daa..

Putting inverters under those hot panels. Mounting them without thought for difficult replacement..Who could have predicted the micro problem. 

 I mean, seriously, what experienced EE would use 50 fragile inverters on a hot roof when 2 central inverters, running in the shade, could have been placed conveniently at eye level.
Mannnn tell me about cursed locations.. my company is around 11 years old, started off with string systems but moved to solaredge about 8 years ago, I’ve been doing strictly solaredge stuff my 5.5 years here. 
This One site that’s a string system has been giving me an isolation fault for a long time now and I can’t find the issue for the life of me, even removed panels one by one and replaced all fuses and the inverter too, all under warranty of course but it’s become a major pain for me. Any suggestions?
For customers micros is fine. Warranty cover 20years. String 10years. And production
What size KW Inverter do you use for a normal installation?
This is key. I have had to deal with string inverters causing an entire site to be down a lot of times, especially as the inverter gets older. With micros, they have a long warranty and if one happens to fail it only affects one panel and someone can swap it out in about 30 minutes.
My problem with micros/optimizers is that the advantage over strings is highly overstated.

https://youtu.be/UQ9Szhl1ceQ?si=YsLJiW-Ei4hBrAeF
When you squeeze a balloon somewhere, it pops out somewhere else - so what do you give up by staying with a DC battery? The very fact AC batteries exist and sell well implies that it's not a clear win either way.
What about 25 years from now? The panels could (and in fact should) still have plenty of life in them. Even if Enphase micros are good and probably are the best in their space, there do seem to be advantages of dealing with the one common point of failure in one place on the ground.
Better in every situation. Absolutely no downsides. This is why the industry is dominated by string inverters. /s
>easier to install, easier expandable

Exactly the opposite in my experience:

"easier" is relative... to do HVDC wiring, or at least the final checks and inspection I need a certain qualification level above "normal" sparky wheras plug n play AC cabling for micros I don't.   So "easier" in this case means not having to wait for the one guy on the crew with that qual to come to site.

Easier to expand?  For a DC string you need to check the MPPT voltage and current meets the inverter input min and max when expanding a string.  It can be that you can not add one or two more panels, because you;d go over the max but under the min for a new MPPT input.  With micros you just keep plugging in more as you like, the only limit is the branch breaker.

Of course, if you meant optimized string then I agree with all, because optimized string takes away the pure string issues above.
Unfortunately code requires RSD on new systems now.
>To the point i would call it a blatant lie.

I seen that video before and and it may apply in Australia but I like the redundancy of micros. I have had two Solaredge inverters fail and in that case all production is lost until a replacement is done. In the one case of a micro failure, I only lost a small fraction of my production.
Solaredge systems are not pure string inverters as they require power optimizers behind each panel. Think they are talking about the optimizers failing.
And when they fail that take some or all of the system offline where the micro inverters only take down one panel
Hey man, have you isolated (pun totally intended) the faulty string or are they all testing about the same? What riso are you getting on the Seward? 

We’ve had leaky modules, like individually, one in the string tests less that 2mohms. Had completely leaky panels, replaced under warranty, trina.
Warranty is an additional, for profit, product, just because they force you to buy one, doesn't make the product any better. I will never buy any additional warranty, and if I'm forced to, I will never buy that product. 
Enphase was half price with 10 year warranty, now with 25 year warranty it's almost 100 EUR/unit, ridiculous, but well calculated to reinvest customers money and make higher profits to the company.
If one is going solar for environmental reasons, then string is a much better option, most of the times we see burned fuses, transistors, igbt,  that fail and can be replaced, some even on site. With micros one is just creating trash.
Production will always be higher with string, especially when inverter is installed in a cooler place, and if it is capable of multi IU curves (shade fix, opti shade,..etc) then even shading is not an issue.
Yeah, they are good for situations where the insolation shifts all the time, but in a normal case they probably aren’t worth it.
Ac batteries are easier to retrofit into any PV system. That's the main reason they exist.
Inverter put out heat and lots of it. That’s energy wasted in the conversion process. It’s also wasted in heat by batteries during charging. 

A balloon is not electricity. 

If you want to make the most of the watts you’re gathering from the sun, you’ll keep it in dc to charge cars for sure as they’re very high demand dc, and charge whole home backup batteries directly via DC as well.
Single point of failure is also a major disadvantage.

If a string inverter goes you lose your entire production for however long it takes to source the part and effect the repair.

If I lose a microinverter that’s just 3% of my production.
How much to replace the string inverter? And string have 10-15 years warranty. 25year warranty already twice as string inverter warranty 
Micro cost 200ish, and no way their all fail at same time.
Enphase cables are hard to expand as the connections are waterproofed in the factory, not? And AC needs much more copper. We've put our inverters close to the mains, short AC cables, 300 feet DC cable to the panels.
Oh I know. Solaredge and Enphase. Pick your poison🤣
solaredge still is considered a string system though. Understand your point they aren’t the same as an SMA or Delta system which just use one RSD per string
We don't know if the brand of string OP mentions that only needs fuses replaced uses optimizers as well, but fair point, so I'll amend to saying this sounds more like brand/model problems than string vs string+optimizers vs micro.
Normal for New York or normal for Arizona?
That’s certainly true. I’m an advocate of ac backup batteries, but I also recognize that they’re less efficient than DC tied batteries.
Now we are getting somewhere!

AC batteries also don't limit your output to the inverter capacity.  If you have a hybrid 10kW inverter with DC coupled battery, you have a 10kW limit, no matter how much battery capacity you connect.  

If you have 10kW of solar and  a 10kW AC battery, you can add another 1,10,100kW of AC battery and get more power and capacity.

So, yes there are advantages to DC.  Also to AC - depending on what outcome you want from the system.  There is no "king" or winner that applies to every case.
>A balloon is not electricity.

Clearly... it's just an analogy I've heard as a way to say that if something gives an advantage somewhere, it's probably giving a disadvantage somewhere else.

So my question is still unanswered:

>what do you give up by staying with a DC battery? The very fact AC batteries exist and sell well implies that it's not a clear win either way.

You've said what the advantages of staying with DC are, and I agree with them. So, DC is better for efficiency and making the most of the free sunlight energy, so why are not all home/solar battery systems DC? There must be some advantage to AC otherwise why does it have any market share?
Yes, if you aren’t grid connected, massive issue. But having 20 points of failure for your 20 panels is arguably worse. And each of those points of failure by themselves is not worth fixing until at least a few of them fail.
I think about $1,500 to replace a string inverter. Labor will be cheaper as job can be done by one person in an hour. If one micro fails, you basically do nothing since replacing it is two person job on your roof and it isn’t worth it. So you might wait until you have a few failed and do a bunch at the same time.
>Enphase cables are hard to expand as the connections are waterproofed in the factory, not? 

Just use the easily available and designed for this purpose [field wireable conenctor](https://enphase.com/store/cables-and-connectors/iq-field-wireable-plug) when you need to do this.

>And AC needs much more copper. 

Standard solar panel DC cabling is 6mm2 (9AWG) and enphase AC cabling is 3mm2 (12AWG) so actually the AC cabling is smaller for AC. You do however have 2 cores of the AC vs one of the DC if you have a pure string, so it comes out the same overall weight and copper cost. 

When you do the homerun cable, if it was 300' like in your case, you'd go up a size of AC cable to keep the losses about the same as running the DC that distance, but luckily it's just standard off the shelf AC cable from any electrical place, not specially rated high voltage DC cable so is nice and cheap, no galvanic correosion to worry about from the constant DC, no special burial requirements, it's just another 240V AC cable.

There are indeed advantages to string, I prefer them myself, but i detest misinformation. If you do prefer string (like i do!) it needs to be for factual reasons that apply in the real world cases being discussed, not some edge case that can always be manufactured to suit the argument.
Tigo here.
Normal like facing south and unshaded.
I still think it’s a bad analogy. 

The vast majority of homes that have backup batteries have dc systems? 

Enphase being the outlier, (and Outback Mojave, but I have yet to see someone go for one of those) 
The advantages and disadvantages of enphase have been covered in this thread. Their batteries are expensive AF and their microinverters are right below the panels, where it’s hot and they do fail. I do think it’s neat that their new micros can be grid forming without batteries. That’s a cool innovation. 

AC coupled systems can be installed without solar which is a bonus, and their wiring is marginally simpler (but this is small potatoes when you include a critical load sub panel)

I’m pitching AC coupled battery systems that are “solar ready” but primarily as a home backup alternative to whole house generators. I sell and install these things. If somebody adds solar to one of my systems it’s DC-DC-AC BUT it’s installed initially as an AC-DC-AC system, and gives the option to charge the house batteries with a portable generator as well.
Talking about 500 kW here, do that AC over 300 feet.
My town has been designated a “tree city” since 1995.  I use micro inverters.
>I still think it’s a bad analogy.

And that's OK - analogies don't have to resonate with everybody, there are a variety of cultures, creeds, nationalities on this forum. You not getting it doesn't make it a bad analogy :-)

>The vast majority of homes that have backup batteries have dc systems?

I don't know if this is a question for me or a badly phrased statement, or what it is.  If it's a statement, I'm interested to see the data behind it for sure!

&#x200B;

>Enphase being the outlier,

As above, outlier to what? Do you mean it's unusual to have an AC battery, and thus Enphase is an outlier for that? Same as above.

>The advantages and disadvantages of enphase have been covered in this thread.

This thread aside, because I don't believe in making large financial decisions based on a single Reddit thread - yes the pros and cons have been discussed many times in many forums.  The consensus is that the absolutely perfect solution for everyone is..... it depends.  AC coupled is great for some, and for a subset of that group Enphase AC coupled is the best solution. For others, DC coupled of various brands.

>Their (enphase)batteries are expensive AF Location and situation dependant.  The pricing in western Australia is quite different to new York, but I'll award you the point that in general enphase tends to be a more premium product. Absolutely agree that "string is king" if you are on a budget above all other considerations, because it's usually the cheapest route.  There are pure string installs in Australia at $1USD per watt!  
>  
>and their microinverters are right below the panels, where it’s hot and they do fail.

More statements.... links to the failure data backing this up?

Will be interesting to compare with string failure data, because a common piece of wisdom on this sub is that string inverters are so much easier to replace being at ground level, when they fail whereas proponents of micros say that if you don't have failures, who cares where the inverter is? Quite interesting to compare the numbers of any particular brand of micros out there against string, and thus the percentage failure.  enphase had to move a few years back to Parts Per Million as a failure rate, as percentage was getting annoying going to fractions.

Let's review - this discussion started with you saying:

&#x200B;

>there are significant efficiency advantages to staying in high voltage DC rather than converting back and forth to and from AC.

So far we have concluded that the efficiency advantage is about the only advantage....? Or are we saying cost is an advantage too?  actually yeah, let's award cost as well as efficiency. So it's cheaper and more efficient to go DC coupled. Why on earth do AC coupled options even still exist? Ah.... because they have other advantages, per the comments outside this thread.  You see, when you \*tries to think of acceptable analogy\* win...on some metric of a closely coupled system.....you tend to....lose on another metric of it - there is no "best" solution where you win on every measured metric.

Good discussion!
AC or DC isn't the reason for the losses, it's the fact residential AC means 240V so higher current (which is where the losses are) than 600-800V DC in a string.  If the AC voltage is raised to the same level as the DC the losses are about the same. At a commercial scale that you describe (500kW) a quick calc shows there could be up to 17% extra loss in going 3 phase 480VAC. That wouldn't kill a project if the only way to do it was a 300' AC run.

But, sadly that's a non sequitur argument - at that scale of course you wouldn't use micros (or optimizers) at 240V - and not even primarily because of the voltage - more the part cost; the economies of scale dictate strings, and commercial is all about profit.

Most of the other points I made or anyone makes for that matter don't apply in that scenario, because you are talking pure string, no optimizers, easy straight cable runs, protected raceways, easy burial etc....you are not trying to run conduit in a way that pleases a homeowner, and you line panels up in long straight rows. You''ll be using three phase inverters, and the AC voltage will be above LV - in fact, funnily enough it will be in the same-ish range as your DC at several hundred volts ....Ask me how i know.

But staying on topic, at a typical resi install scale using typical resi equipment which is what most of this sub talks about, and what the opening words in the OP mention, the AC vs DC losses are not a factor.
Awww...my guy, you blocked my username?  

I guess that's one way to deal when you find yourself in over your head, but it's disappointing.
Also prefab cables, when roof has obstructions, is a no-go for most installers here. If you designed it wrong it won't fit (just repeating what my installer told me)
Are you sure the original micros weren’t IQ7 or 6’s and they installed a 7+ for the replacement?

Menu-> system-> devices -> microinverters in the enlighten app to confirm what is on your roof.
They might have cleaned the panel while installing
Try switching two invertors on two of the panels, maybe the 234 and 183 watt ones, and see if the watts stay similar or swap.
It could be that the old ones had a profile on them that is restricting the power output, and the one tha was replaced has a different profile.  You need to look at the power output history of old and new compared to the others - your installer has access to these graphs or call enphase support.
How old are the others?  That's the only thing I can come up with is they're just getting "tired".  You might also try re-seating the connections on the other panels as well, there could be just a touch or corrosion making for a weaker connection.
Was it raining when they installed your equipment?

**Reason I’m asking is because while the micros themselves are potable, that doesn’t mean the connections are. This has been a curiosity of mine for a long time with management.
Yeah this is the most likely case - the existing ones don't get "tired" or degrade in output, so something about the new one is causing higher output.   Check the model number as suggested....also is the new one higher output over several days consistently ?
POSITVE the are ALL 7+. I have a total of 20.  Looking at both in the software and I can look up and see the labels for the six in the pic.
NOPE -  Panel was not touched,  Micro-inverter was replaced from under the panel.
Not that easy.  The think is when old/defective micro-inverter was working it was in the same range as all of the others.  Very strange this one is so much higher.
That would make sense.  Thank you.
Less than 5 years old.
Nope, haven’t seen rain is a month or more.
Definitely shouldn't be THAT much difference, I could see it being 5-10%.  Have you reached out to Enphase and asked them what they think?
I meant when they physically put them on your home, was it raining or wet conditions.
No., thought I would ask here first.
No
That’s a really weird problem. The only thing I can really think of is that you got a bad lot of micros, which happens. There’s a certain fail rate that come out of the manufacturer (SolarEdge is notorious for this) without them straight up failing the warranty holders probably won’t do much. Follow up: did they ever produce more? How many watts is each panel?
It depends on the electric company.  For PG&E it’s both - you’re not supposed to turn on your system or export power prior to PTO.  They also rarely enforce it, so many folks do turn on their systems prior to PTO as a relatively safe gamble.  If something does go wrong and you get caught, they can eliminate your ability to ever get PTO, or so I was told.
It's export to the grid.  The utility doesn't care what you do on your side of the meter because it has no impact to them.

I'm assuming you have some sort of islanding equipment where you can charge your PW's from solar but the system turns off if they are full right?  If that's the case, that should be fine and when you get PTO, then you can export to grid and get your net metering (hopefully it's 1:1).
make sure the meter is reset to bidirectional or you'll get billed for all the electricity your system exports as well as all that you pull from the grid.
I've had my system for about 14 months. The installers turned it on when they were finished installing in mid-October and I got PTO on December 2nd. For the first six weeks I used some of the power that was generated during the day and exported the rest. My bill was lower but I didn't get any credit for the exported power.

I'm in Calif. and have PG&E - according to a previous comment it isn't supposed to work like this but I had no issues.
Be patient, just wait for PTO. Your installer nor the utility are going to give you their blessing to turn on either the battery or solar prior to PTO regardless of whether set to no export. No point in trying to convince them.

Often an installer will disable operation via software to prevent you from turning it on, but also makes it easy to remote start it once PTO is received.

Some systems do get turned on before PTO by an eager homeowner or a forgetful installer, but there are risks.  I've heard of instances of export getting getting counted as usage and billed.  Haven't heard of an interconnection agreement cancelled nor penalty.  And safety prior to inspections, should they find something not code compliant.  So you could, but you shouldn't.
Array looks nicely installed along ridge lines
Wow, no set backs needed. Its a rarity to find areas where they’re not required anymore. Looks good though, local installation team?
Looks nice, crazy how things differ from state to state. This would not fly where I am from because you need fire walks.
Looks nice, how much for everything? I have a few more panels but no guards yet or EV chargers
Consumption, not seen graphed that way, now that I look at it, I get it
How does this meet IBC access requirements? Fire Marshall sign off?
The middle 3 could’ve at least been centered with the top row smfh
Nice lookin array!
Does your inverter have optimizers for panel level monitoring and production balancing?
2.30 ppw is a very low and good price point. When I was working in solar they were selling at 4$ ppw
Wow, 40kW in December?
Just a couple of things that irk me.

I hate those middle 3 panels being slightly out of line. Looks like no gap between rows either.
Can you please clarify on the cost? How much does it cost to install something like this approx?
Thanks
Are they all scratched or am I seeing things?
That’s not good it breaks code
There should be gaps in between rows. No one seems to do that anymore. But it’s fine. 

When I did it, I matched horizontal gap to vertical gap. 

With all black it don’t matter as much. You can’t really see it anyway.
[deleted]
Nice production. What is your location. 
Those spikes looks like you have a heatpump.
Thanks!
Yeah local install with everyone inhouse
I’m glad I was able to max out my south facing roof. HOA allowed us to place them on the front of the house without a peep.
Before rebates- 19.8k installed with 2 ev plugs and rodent guard
Passed inspection
Luckily without a drone, I don’t see it; from
The street I barely even see them- this is 3rd floor roof
Thanks!
Nope not that I know of, from what I understood I should get them only if I had trees or things blocking the sun.
It’s not the cheapest quote I got but the company had the best customer service rating; the great thing is they answer all my questions and concerns and always answered the phone.
Yeah I think it’s pretty good to
From what I was told 10mm gaps is manufacture recommendations and that’s what they followed. And the three in the middle could’ve been shifted to the left but I don’t mind since I don’t see them unless I’m droning
I paid about 20k for total with 2 EV Hubbell ev outlets and rodent guard. 21 panel 405kw qcell with a 7.6kw inverter. 8.51kw system.
I don’t know if they are or not.
From what I understand code is region dependent
I’d rather not had gaps. 10mm is the required distance  from what I read according to the manufacturer for swelling
What’s odd about them
NC, yeah it went down to 27F that night
Not a HOA thing a building code thing. You need 36" from at least 1 side and 18" from the ridge. You got the PTO, so you're good. The work is clean and professional. The only thing I don't see is permanent anchors.
Very good price
Why did I asked lol I feel like my behind is bleeding now. I paid 28k after rebate and I only have a few more panels than you.
$19.8K?
That’s a STEAL!
That's a fantastic price! I'm on the other side of the world but I paid paid 18K (€) for a 6kW system, after the 50% rebates we have here. We do have a 7kWh battery though, so I'm not surprised
I like it. I just can’t do it for clients in any states I work in.
They definitely solve partial shading issues but the production balancing helps you maintain production in the event a panel malfunctions or is less efficient for what ever reason. With your set up, if one of your panels production drops by 50%, your entire system output will drop by 50%. 

You got a great price on your system but you also got what you paid for. Regardless, I’m glad your experience has been fantastic. Too many horror stories. We need more stories like yours :).
What lattitude are ya at?
Some HOA's do have rules about solar being on the front facing roof. Mostly for aesthetics.
It’s on a ironridge track system if that’s what you are talking about
That’s not bad. I’ve seen way better price than mine, it’s a crapshoot. As long as you got what you want and it works well over time. You’ll get your money back.
I paid 7k euro for the same!
[deleted]
I think it looks clean lol I like the look
> With your set up, if one of your panels production drops by 50%, your entire system output will drop by 50%. 

Dont the bypass diodes help with this in modern panels?
Yeah I love it right now, will see how it works later but for winter with only 6 hours of sunlight; to produce more than I use, it’s pretty awesome.
Not whole system but per string in a Tesla inverter I thought?
I’m in nc
No idea latitude.
Yeah I assumed I would run into issues with front facing solar panels and my hoa didn’t blink an eye.
Roof anchors also known as halos. They are D rings that sit below the ridge for you to attach a rope to. We leave at least 1 in for every job we do.
[removed]
Wow, that is so cheap
Not in my area or maybe I didn't get lucky enought to reach the right vendor. Whats done it's done. I'm in Virginia.
Yes, bypass diodes make a huge difference for this kind of shading. Especially in combination with an inverter capable of global MPPT.
I think they said i have 3 strings. Whatever that means
No worries, you're a state North of me. We've got 32 panels and a battery getting installed soon so here's hoping for similar returns!
I am in Charlotte, NC.. do you mind sharing the installers contacts please?
No idea 🤷🏻
"Your comment was removed by the reddit filter.  Try to avoid using URL shorteners anywhere on this site. reddit does not allow them and automatically removes all posts and comments using these types of links. Please resubmit your comment using the full URL. "

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Do you know if an mppt per string?
Nice! Post it when it’s done!
[removed]
https://www.mechanicsurplus.com/products/5630498096?gad_source=1&gclid=Cj0KCQiAyeWrBhDDARIsAGP1mWSRKIbRFcPn3_pW8raxPbtLM4M2SOv5O54w3Ep9pWW9HqmzO-tRTSoaArSGEALw_wcB

Looks like that, not a big deal unless you are the one trying to fix a panel.
On some of the new inverters you can run 2 strings in parallel on the one mppt. 

They can be on different aspects too
That’s over my skill or understanding
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Just as a FYI (since there has already been a bot about shortened URLs). 

In the above URL, you can remove https:// but also the ‘?’ and everything that follows. That’s just unneeded tracking information, telling the site owner from where and how the link was shared, etc.  The above link would end with ‘…096’.

It makes for cleaner posts - even though your link wasn’t extreme. Some tracking information is longer than the typed commentary 😁
found it on tesla's website - you have four in your inverter, and if three strings are used right now - then you've definntely got one mppt per string.

What that means in context of this thread is that if one solar module is affected by shade issues, the solar modules on that same string will most likely be affected (unless you have an optimizer in place). But not *all* of your modules.

If you happen to have a string map of your modules, you can begin to understand which modules affect each other.
I can ask but they didn’t provide that information nor did I think to ask after install, I’m supposed to be getting package in the mail with all the warranty and install manuals sometime next week.
If you’re not worried about shade, then not a worry, unless you have an installation issue - then it’s nice to have the map
SRECs: no, you don't need to be "100% solar" (whatever that might mean) to sell SRECs.  They are currently selling in the mid $30s, you should take them into account in your Discount Cash Flow analysis (or however you're going to decide that solar is "worth it").

[https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title58.1/chapter36/section58.1-3661/](https://law.lis.virginia.gov/vacode/title58.1/chapter36/section58.1-3661/)

As I read it, in Virginia PV system can't be included in your real property assessment, i.e., adding panels can't raise your property taxes.  I guess I'd make sure to get at least three quotes, Ion Solar sounds like they maybe don't have their act entirely together.
That's some serious snake oil you're being sold. SRECs are determined by the power your panels generate - 1 MwHr = 1 SREC, entirely independent of how much you use or don't use from the grid.


You certainly aren't magically forgoing property taxes because you get panels. If that were true people couldn't pay installers enough to get them on!! Unsure about subtracting the value of the panels... Probably something to check with your county since that's the level property taxes are administered at in VA. I would be a little skeptical of trying too hard here, the county could take a look and decide for any number of reasons your property should be valued higher upon a closer look too.
No, Ion is selling you THERE solar dream, to max out THERE profit on you
Ion is a company that promises, and in a lot of situations comes thru, but not for the correct reasons. 

Ion promised me 92% electric bill coverage.  While not giving in to the sales pitch, I held for a few days, reviews and noticed that:

Their set up/panels design on a good day would cover ~81% of my needs, the 11% promised was the 26 LED lightbulbs and nest thermostat in the “in the bundle”. 

After shopping around and getting similar quotes, some higher, some ~lower, all the other quotes had more panels than Ion offered. Of course, some of these panels would work 3hrs max a day before shadowed, so discounting those, the total panels were 5-8 more than ion at near the price. 

In the end, ion was trying to sell me LED lights and a thermostat at the same price as extra panels. When questioned, they read me statistics of energy savings over long terms, yada yada. Except my house was 8 years old, build on 2x6 walls packed with foam/blown mix, geothermal heat pump and every light is already LED. 

Ion is not a fly by night company, but they do take advantage of the consumer ignorance on energy efficiency. I would not take anything they say as gospel, best bet is to contact your city property department and ask outright, best is email so you have the record come tax time. 

Hampton roads here, I know VB property tax dept is very helpful, not always nice but always helpful.
Here in NH we are not 100% and we sell SRECs.  We get $27 per.  We also can apply to get our panels waved from the property assessment.  Basically the property tax can't go up due to the solar panels.
[removed]
You inspired me to do some more research - its a 5yr credit for the total cost of the install. But the language is vague to me and implies this is not for solar panels? From Fairfax Co:



Property owners can qualify for a tax exemption for the installation of solar equipment that is designed and used primarily for the purpose of providing for the collection and use of solar energy for water heating, space heating or cooling or other applications which would otherwise require a conventional source of energy. Qualifying solar energy systems include solar heating and hot water systems, passive solar energy systems, south facing windows used as solar collectors, trombe walls (a sun facing wall designed to collect solar energy and act as a thermal mass for heating the structure), greenhouses integrated into the heating system of the structure, thermal storage systems, movable insulation, and shading devices designed primarily for shading windows to assist in summer cooling.
Gotcha, thank you!

And yea VA has already bumped my property taxes the last two years, but it seems like it's just because of rising home values I guess.

Follow on question, how do I sign up or register for my SRECs? I've had my solar system since 2019 but it wasn't until this year that I learned about SRECs.
Thanks for the in depth response! I wish I had talked to you before I got my first panels in '19. 

Did you end up going full solar? And if so are you pursuing the property tax exemption in VA?
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Many of our town in NH use similar language. It means (here at least) that the town won’t assess your property at a higher value due to the addition of your solar panels. 

Regarding SREC’s think of it as a small side benefit separate from everything else. Every time your array creates 1MWh, whether it is used at your home or not, a certificate is created. This can be sold on an open marketplace and companies (often utilities) will buy them to meet their clean energy requirements. From your side once you’ve signed up you just sit back and collect the check. 

BUT, it’s usually a small check. I calculate it at the current price with a deescalating value of 5% yearly, and being gone in 15 years. As more homes get solar the value drops unless the market demand for the SREC’s increase from a higher clean energy minimum requirement.
This is the same thing I saw and it's what Ion is saying may apply to my situation. The sales rep was sure to say something along the lines of "property tax exemption is supposed to happen but it's not something I can guarantee". Just trying to see if anyone's actually gotten the benefit yet and what the likelihood of it actually happening is.
My installer set mine up - there are a bunch of brokerages out there, it's barebones but my experience with SRECTrade have been good. It took a while and I did get the ones that generated between the system going live and getting that set up. Right now VA SRECs are on the order of maybe $50 each?
I am pursuing full solar, but I am already tax exempt for other reasons, unfortunately I cannot answer your question there, but it’s how I found out my particular tax dept was helpful.
Ok awesome! I'll dig around on SRECTrade and try to get it set up.
Which company you going with? Powur quoting me 16.2kW @$40k before fed tax and SREC, which is $2.47/W not too bad. Even their financing seems legit. Of course I’m waiting for quotes from other companies.
There's also SOL systems. 
Also also if you've been generating a lot of excess energy enter into a PPA with Dominion. It just takes a phone call to get them to give you the paperwork for it.
I used energysage website, got a bunch of quotes, took them and shopped local, returned with newer/better quotes and offered each company to beat it. Tbh that is the best way to go. Ended up making friends with a guy who owns a company, they are doing the work. 

That’s the best way to go vs using any company someone suggested.
Could you spare some more details, system size, costs, anything is useful.
It’s a solar community, 6 family. It’s not comparable.
If its just modules no install, thats about the wholesale price
Usually solar panels are priced out on a per watt basis. In this case, the 350 panels would run you $.57 per watt and the Q 400s would run you $.62 per watt. If we're talking about the same solar manufacturer for both panels and roof space isn't an issue, go with the 350s. If you are limited in how many panels you can fit into your array, the 400s might make more sense.
More panels requires, more mounts, more roof, more wiring, and depending on system more inverters. Which all is also more chances for things to go wrong. There also isn't many panels that beat the value of the qcell 400w q peak duo panels. Although I would opt for rec pure alpha every day, the extra cost is worth it.
I would go with the higher wattage panel always.  The mounting cost and inverter cost is relatively the same per panel. So if you have more watts per panel the overall cost per watt is less.   Once you are out of roof space, it gets way more complicated in residential housing. 

I think my next system will use bifacial 500 plus watt panels.  The bifacial panels produce way more power in less than perfect conditions.  And honestly unless you are in southern california or arizona, then clouds are the reality.
Which ever you choose, dpnt over generate as more and more utility companies are not paying out for excess by the month or by the year.
Installed? 
Just by themselves not installed (new or used)??
Giving you this choice doesn't make a ton of sense,  at least in my mind. 
You don't get more watts, generally,  and I'm sure there are exceptions but not 50w exceptions,  by making the panel more efficient- you get them by making the panel larger (cursory look is that a 400w panel is 6 inches wider than a 350)

So how much power do you need/want?
Are you roof space limited to make that power?
Are you going line or micro inverter?

Fewer panels make same power at expense of taking up a larger space per panel and probably requiring an inverter upgrade assuming you're doing micro inverters.
They should be providing plans with total cost and production estimates to let you choose.  And it's not hard.  It's basically a PowerPoint program and generally computer measured and they want to confirm those measurements
No. 400 watt panels should be like $160 each at the most. You're getting scammed
What math? I said the panels cost 200 to 500 per panel.
They’re just unloading their stock because mods are just going to get cheaper.
https://signaturesolar.com/adani-solar-535w-bifacial-silver-m10-144-up-to-650w-with-bifacial-gain/
[removed]
Read where many solar companies in very bad condition right now.
How many panels you getting? Is this for residential?
Just the panels.  
Thanks
If the 350 and 400w panels are the same size that is.
It's $0.625/W on the QCells 400s, not 4.62. Additionally, LONGi has 355W product out there in the 20s, possibly teens, so $200 for a 350W mod is a bonkers overpay.
How much more would they be?
I’m in the Bay Area with a southern facing roof with 20 panels.  With the changes PG&E is making to the rate plans, I like just about every other PG&E customer is gong to need many more panel if they still want 100% offset.
I’m with PG&E and have solar.  And just like 100s of thousands of PG&E customer we are about to get fucked next year when PG&E screws with the rates plans.  For the past 4 years I have over produced $1,000 of electricty giving it to PG&E for about $30.00.  BUT with he changes to the rate plan this year I had to PAY PG&E $500.  With the changes they are making to the rate plan in August of 2025 I and everyone else will have to buy about 40% of our electricty from PG&E.  OR we will need to increase our solar systems by 50%.  Just planning ahead.
The 400 watt are brand new never installed. 
The 350 watt were installed for a week and removed.  Might have signs of being mounted.  They were removed from service because the solar sales person thought they could pull a fast one and sell 350 watt panels as 355 watt.   Homeowner found out and they were removed.
I have solar now and have had it for 5 years.  The system has been overproducing $1,000 of electricity each year for which PG&E pays me about $30. With PG&E’s recent changes to the rate plan last true-up I had to spend $400.  And in August 2025 PG&E is forcing 100s of thousands of solar customers to change rate plans. I’m trying to future proof what I have. If I don’t increase the size of my solar system in 2025 I and everyone else affected will have to buy about 40% of our electricity to cover usage.
Where would you get a new Qcell 400w panel for $160?
Where can one buy 400 watt panels for $160 each?
Oh…. Where can I buy 409 watt panels for $200?
Thank you
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
I would.be adding ^ panels to my existing system.  Yes, residential.
And my understanding is that more watts is generally achieved through size increase
Whoops. Darn caps lock on the 4 got me. Like anything, you usually get what you pay for when it comes to solar. With only a 12 year warranty on their panels, there are better options than LONGi.
For Diy purposes. Depends on how much you trust the source you purchase from. Anywhere from $200 to $500 per panel

I would suggest you have a rec certified installer install them instead of DIY due to their warranty. Having the rec pro trust warranty is 25 years even stating 92% remaining power at 25 years.
I'm going to buy more solar is an odd response to "they aren't paying me enough for the solar I make." That is effectively what you're doing. 
I believe NEM 3 is meant to get you to buy batteries, though CPUC is presently fumbling the bag
Any installer should be able to offer you panels are those prices. You'd need to go through an installer but panels should be like 30c/watt.
https://www.solarelectricsupply.com/rec-rec420aa-pure-r-solar-panel

Always depends on how much you trust a source and what shipping cost are. Just Google rec 420 pure alpha and then hit shopping. 

Enphase iq8 also don't work with them. Have to use iq7 which are cheaper as well.
Panels rated power is determined by the panel efficiency and its size. So either is possible.
Couldn't agree more. I'd take a lot over LONGi.
You want me to spend $200 to $500 more per panel?  That would double or triple the cost.  That’s cray expensive.  No, I’m not a DYI I’m using a professional installer who has installed over 6,000 systems.
You need to look at what PG&E is doing to the rate plans.  Instead of peak hours being during solar production hours like it is now, they made all solar production hours off-peak.  So instead of not using solar electricity during the day and seeking the excess to PG&E like I am now the incentive for PG^E customers is to consume electricity during the day.  But this means in order to get 1 KWhr in the evening you will have to overproduce 3 during the day.  This is why I need more panels.  PG&E is paying less, so for me to retain 100% offset I need to overproduce about twice as much during the day with more panels.
They are $200-$500 each. Not that much added cost.
Your professional installer allow you to bring your own glass? Family?
Sooooo why aren't they providing the modules? They can get them cheaper than you...
You can’t add a significant amount of panel without violating your agreement with pge and lose nem2. Is that hard to understand?
I think you're focused on probably the wrong metric- which ought to be your ROI or IRR or years to payback. 
Adding low ROI things- more panels- is not going to produce the outcome you want. If you want to spend $10k or $20k to pay your electric bill for the next 25 years, buy one of the high yield bonds out there at 7%. It'll produce a higher return than more panels
Alternatively, you can add something that allows you to use your over production from off peak hours during peak hours. 
Like a storage solution. 
A battery. You charge it with off peak evergy during day and use it during peak period at night. 

The target outcome from nem 3
And even $200 more is a steal if you have any bit of shade or east west roof. As they produce 25% more in low light conditions vs standard panels. Along with degrade at .25% instead of .5%.
Nope - Independent installer who has been doing solar installs for 25 years and has nearly 4,000 installs in the Bay Area.  Greatest guy and know his stuff.
You won't really find an installer that will allow you to bring your own panels. That's why I said for diy this is the cost... but I would suggest using an installer.
It’s an offer to buy models for at a discounted price.
Yes it is clear.  So how much can I add?
Already purchased the bonds. Did that before investing in solar.  But solar was paying a 300% return everyday.  How can you pass that up?   I purchased solar and in 4 years it’s paid itself.
I could until I found out you can’t discharge the battery to the mains or grid.  From what I’ve been told you havre to attach the loads in you home you want powered by the battery.  Stove, heater, lights etc.  Problem I havre is I have several sub electrical panels and the cost to require has been estimated at $30k place the battery. 

Now if I can install a battery in my tool shed and charge from the grid and discharge to the grid without having to rewire my house I would buy two today.  But again it’s my understanding one can’t do that. With PG&E.
$700 per panel or $7,000 for 10.  Vs $2.,000.   Sorry not agreeing with your math.
You may want to get whatever you are about to do in writing. I never heard a pro who will touch someone else’s equipment. For starters, warranty doesn’t work.

What a weird guy.

I am very familiar with the bay area. No installer reputable would be willing to touch this. Some maybe willing to put up panel that violates nem2, but no one i know will touch someone else’s equipment.

Good luck with your project. The most likely scenario is that you would pay for some rejected panel which will sit in your garage as your installer refuse to touch it after you paid for them.
That doesn't make sense. If they've done 4000 installs, they can buy those panels for less than the numbers you put here.
Discounted from what? If they've done thousands of installs, they can get way better numbers than that.
1kw or 10%, whichever is greater appeantly. If you have 20 panels, you cannot possibly have more than 10kw, so you are looking at 2-3 panels at most if you want to stay under the nem2 rule.
You can solve the same issues (degradation, shading, etc), simply by doing 1-2 more Q-Cell panels assuming you have the space. Also, with that amount of price difference, OP could replace all the panels in 10 years and still be ahead.
What do you mean someone else’s equipment.  He’s the pro that did the install.  

If you have been doing solar in the Bay Area then you know or have heard of him.  HE’s been installing solar for nearly 30 years and has close to 4,000 installs. Compared to other solar companies that run conduit all over the place their install is clean and doesn’t look like a shit hack job I seen on so many other homes.  The guy was reliable, on time, and workman ship was outstanding.  I most certainly could have paid maybe less and but I’m sure the install would have looked like shit.
Based on comments here, that’s what I asked.  I offered $50 for the 350 watt panels and $100 for the 400 watt.  Would that be a good deal?
Got it.  Thank you.  I will discuss with my installer.  A whole lot of PG&E’s customers are in for a rude awakening on November 30, 2025 with the changes in rate plan.
If I posted rec panels for 200 and his q cells are 250.. how could he get more qcells for cheaper and replace them in 10 years for cheaper. And adding more panels requires more of everything. Not just space. And the recs perform 25% more in low light. 1 to 2 panels isn't going to make up that difference.  Especially when they already produce 20w less. Think your math is very wrong.
You really don’t make much sense. You are asking people how much to pay PER panel for some junk panel in a warehouse somewhere. I don’t know a single installer here that price their panels like that. Normal installer price it by kw
You said that the cost for the panel could be up to $250 more ($500 per panel). That’s 2x the cost. If the panels have more than half the lifespan or performance, then financially, the cheaper panels are more economic. Even accounting for the shading performance, it’s still more economical to use the cheaper panels. 

Of course, that assumes that space is unlimited and there are no other constraints.
Q panels are JUNK?  Other here posted they are of very good quality.  You are the only person so far that’s saying they are junk,

How is a panel by the KWhr when the price per panel varies.  That’s stupid.  Just take a look on Amazon, Alt-E energy they ALL sell panels by the panel NOT KwHR.
Batteries are priced per kWh. Solar is priced by kW. Easy way to know you're not all that familiar with what you're talking about here.
The solar side is more likely balanced and one CT should work. I am assuming the input can be programmed to multiply the reading by two. For the load side I prefer two CTs because my 120 Volt legs might not be balanced.
Enphase is a 240V output, so both legs will be equal and you only need one CT.

For your home it's a different story, some high-load item (like a refrigerator, or the blower motor an a gas furnace, or large aquarium heater) can easily bias the power of one leg over the other and throw off your data.

1 CT for true 240 V loads (including solar), 2 CT's for the main.

I'm not familiar with your monitoring system, but for a professional system (like Egauge) it is possible to put the 2nd CT on the neutral wire of your main and have it figure out the proper data using math on the measured signals.

For example, if you're measuring A (Ia represents current in phase A) and you measure the N (In) then Ib = Ia + In  (depending on the direction of the CT on N - it might be Ib = Ia = In)  A simpler monitoring system may not allow you to do it this way.
For solar, you only need one CT on either leg in your typical home split phase cofuguration like you have here.

For consumption monitoring you must have two CTs, one on each leg as the amount of current draw on each leg will be different depending on the loads connected on each 120 circuit.  You cannot just use one CT and double it, it will not be correct nor accurate.

What you may be thinking of with regard to "doubling it" are the voltage references.  Technically you need the voltage from both legs, but because on a 240/120 service each leg is roughly equal around 120, to save wiring most meters have you just pull one leg/wire and use a jumper for the other leg effectively doubling it to 240. the voltage doubling may also be done in software, but the former is more common.
Enphase measures both legs.  If you're going through the hassle, do the best that you can for the best data and not skimp.
you should have a CT on each leg of your grid feed so you can properly measure the amp flow, the idea those are that well balanced is a fallacy, yeah sure during summer when 80% of your bill is your central air they may appear pretty balanced, but in the winter if you have a gas furnace, the furnace is on 120v so it's only pulling from 1 leg and then you get into how your circuits are actually being utilized in your house to see how balanced they are. CT's are cheap, just do it.
I'm using measuring gear from Circuit Setup into an InfluxDB database on Home Assistant. Should be able to double the value in Home Assistant or in the ESPHome yaml code that drives the Circuit Setup boards.

Getting a second CT on the other leg of the main is going to be difficult. The CT I'm using is a very tight fit on the wire. It might be possible, but not sure. Getting a second CT on the other solar leg might be possible if I can get some clearance where it comes into the box.
For 240V loads I would use a single CT if there was enough slack wire to run the second leg through the CT in the opposite direction. If this wasn't possible, I've installed 2 CTs and as long as the output isn't above the measuring limit of the Circuit Setup board, I'd do a Y combination of the CTs to only take up one measurement port.

Given that the Enphase is balanced, is it correct to just double the values from a single CT on one leg to get the total? FWIW, I was able to get a 2nd CT fitted on the other leg of the main, and also put a second CT on the solar as well. Did this before reading these responses. I can now remove it and use it somewhere else like EV charging down the road.
>Enphase measures both legs.

My Enphase Envoy only has one CT connection for solar and two for consumption. As  I mentioned, the solar output is balanced and Enphase only has to measure one leg on solar to acurately report production, Also the Envoy can sum up the reports from each micro to report total production even without a production CT being fitted.
>Getting a second CT on the other leg of the main is going to be difficult.

I had the same issue. Fortunately my Emporia Energy monitor had an option for a different CT that had a loop for the CT that fit around my cables.
I have two systems with Enphase 10Ts in Phoenix. 

Currently I am set to "savings" mode and the batteries discharge to cover my house loads during the peak windows. Come summer time, I switch to "self consumption" which keeps the batteries at 100% until solar drops below the house loads. Works better in Arizona. 

Surprised the new 5Ps don't have that capability. You should be able to load whatever your utility rate is from Enphase and it'll do what you want it to.
I have the Enphase 10T and set it for self consumption which will do what you need it to do for the time window specified.  Have not messed with tariff setting as we do not have the variable rate here in Texas.  Keep in mind that the power load output is only 3.8kW continous for the 5 and the 10 so it won't run the whole house.  


Here's a snapshot of my usage:  


https://ibb.co/Wf62Dch
That’s a small solar system to pair with a battery. Might want to ask how that will impact during grid outages.
Nothing here about your usage from 3pm to 7pm or usage in general.
Look into FranklinWH.
There's an enphase option but it's not available stateside yet, it's the system controller 3INT, had it for most of the year in Aus, not sure what the delay is for you guys, https://youtu.be/RUo_rDwK4as?si=tmNANcTZLM14WPE1
>Surprised the new 5Ps don't have that capability. 

I'm kind of hoping someone is going to tell me this isn't the case.
You using the Octopus VPP plan with your Enphase batteries? They'll optimize your sell back, pulling from the battery when prices peak after dark.

It's about the only way to take advantage of Texas variable rates.
> power load output is only 3.8kW continuous for the 5 and the 10

Yup, which I think is fine for my requirements. We can hold off on laundry, car charging etc during peak usage and power outages.
Can you be more specific as to your concerns?  I think you're implying the solar system will struggle to provide a full charge during the day while also powering the house which will undermine its utility as a back-up. 

FWIW, our house is 1400 sq ft and the solar system was spec'ed to provide \~105% of annual power usage at the time. We have natural gas water heater, furnace and oven.

Thanks in advance, I'm getting better information here than from the installers.
Really helpful. I wasn't even aware of system controllers as a thing. Another user in this thread said the Enphase 10T has the functionality I'm looking for. Does that mean the system controller is built into the battery itself? Does the IQ Battery 5P just have a primitive system controller? Sorry if these are super basic but that's my level at the moment.
OK - "this isn't the case" :-). It's literally one of the marketing reasons for the battery.

[Time of use settings](https://support.enphase.com/s/article/How-do-I-update-my-tariff-settings?_ga=2.2385394.35830451.1702591421-1742284948.1702591421%3F_ga%3D2.2385394.35830451.1702591421-1742284948.1702591421)

You are being fed bad info - this is nothing to do with the 10T vs 5P, or the system controller, the settings are in the gateway and work for all enphase batteries.

At this stage since you have conflicting info, i would just call enphase support to confirm the above is correct.
I'm contracted for 36 months with Almika so will have to see when that ends.  I don't see this VPP anywhere on the texas solar buyback site nor the Octupus US site... They're quoting RTW buy back rate which is supposedly 3 cents or so.  My bill is zero for the last 9 months so I'm not too sad.
3.8kW should give you room to do laundry alongside other usual household electrical uses.
Ya. I don’t know where you live or know what the weather is like when the grid goes down for you but my concern is that you drain your battery and the solar doesn’t have the ability to replenish to continue providing much backup. Maybe you have sunny days when the grid goes down but where I live it happens in the winter when there’s storms and solar generation is 20-30% of what it is in summer. 

There is a minimum solar system size required to pair with a battery. Or at least there is for Tesla Powerwall. It’s around 3-4 kW but I don’t want to assume it’s the same for each manufacturer. 

My suggestion to ask the folks bidding your project is because they should know their battery and be able to explain if it’s an issue or not.

The Powerwall 2 would indeed work with your inverters. The Powerwall + and Powerwall 3 would not as they come with a string inverter you don’t need.
Yeah I only just started learning about them too tbh, we seemed to skip every controller until 3INT, every controller before this one was pretty lacking by comparison to Tesla, 3INT beats it by a little. Could probably call enphase support to ask what's available, they're some of the best help in industry
I have a IQ System Controller 2 installed. That's what tells the system to discharge the batteries if the power is out. You'll get one if you install the 5P.
I really appreciate the response. I'll be conducting more follow-up until I get this straight.
RTW average is 3 cents, but that includes overnight. During the day it averages higher, closer to 5-6. But the VPP will let you sell back from the battery at 8-9p when it peaks higher (>10¢). They also pay $40/month to participate. 

Allegedly they won't pull power before a major storm or drop you below 20% charge. It's promising for return, but new. Theoretically it's great for pocket and grid.

Edit: I'm hoping to hear good things before my plan ends in early 2025.
Also, forgot the link to their US website with "[Octo Gridboost](https://octopusenergy.com/octo-gridboost)".

I'm also on a 36 month plan, so I've got until May 2025. But I think VPPs are the long-term way to go. They make too much sense from a optimizing grid and sell back perspective.
Last commenter gave you the time of use tariff page which is useful.   Here is the enphase webpage on battery profiles.   It has a good writeup of how the system will react in a savings profile during peak and non-peak hours.


https://support.enphase.com/s/article/which-system-profile-should-i-choose-for-my-enphase-energy-system
Thanks. Bookmarked. Will check back if it's still available when my contract expire.
I don't think it'll go away. Prices may change. Tesla (Powerwall only) and David (Sunnova currently, may expand) both have similar. But yeah, the idea is good. We'll see long term value.
Ahh okay, they just provided me with an order sheet, and it does list the pure R panels. So maybe it was a typo?
Take a pic of a panel label - that's the only way to know for sure.

The inverter model reported in the app comes from the inverter so you can believe it - but the panel is entered by the installer and subject to human error.

You said you have IQ7X inverters - if that is info from the app, then it's correct, and you very likely have the PURE-R panels, but if you want 100% peace of mind, take a pic.
[deleted]
Installer configures the panels in their Enlighten Manager… system has no idea what it’s paired with - all it can see is the micros and all the micros can see is energy coming in.. the panel name and description is just a user label they configure
Up to the roof I go! Unfortunately it's too dark now. So this is tomorrow's activity. Thank you!!
Iq7x
An end user would not know that the *inverter serial number, model, current status*, is all real live data from the inverter and trustable for accuracy, but the *panel* *model* is whatever the installer chose in the drop down list.... so yeah - panel label is the only way you are going to confirm the panel.

&#x200B;

Don't fall off the roof....[the labels should be near an edge.](https://www.recgroup.com/sites/default/files/documents/ds_rec_alpha_pure-r_series_ul_web.pdf?t=1677198162)
Appreciate the help!
Good to see an installation company who cares about their team safety 😏. Wouldn’t advise other homeowners go up while installation teams are on the roof either but congrats on the new system anyway! Hope PTO comes quickly for ya!
The pipe over the gutter. With the upside down conduit body. You should ask them to do something about that. (Conduit body can be upside down). The pipe coming out of that and going to the roof might be an eye sore
Here to say the same thing you can scream, sweet talk, hell even offer extra money guys will not wear their harnesses doesn't matter if the company cares they don't that's for sure.
That’s is true. No one had harnesses, and I did not go up. The roof picture was taken from second floor window that overlooks the roof on the porch where 6 more panels got installed
What would an alternative solution be?
Its a matter of a company enforcing the policy. I’ve been a part of a couple of companies where crews never went up on a roof without their PPE.
That bend is a disaster. They could do a double 90 bend. Then put the conduit facing the upper roof.  Same can be accomplished with a 90 and 45 bend on bottom. 

Then from the conduit up top all you need is a small kick at the end of the pipe to connect to the conduit and it won’t go way high in the air. If they are t good at bending the doubles on one piece they can just cut and add a coupling to fix almost any poor measurement or bend
Thanks for the suggestion I will talk to them about it.
That makes a lot of sense, and now I see what you're talking about. You have a good eye, I didn't pick up on that.
Those can be a pain in the ass to disconnect. If you had a panel replacement it was likely easier for them to just snip it to move quicker. Then it probably rolled down the roof, or they just didn't clean up after themselves.
That's a somewhat clean cut on the wire.

Is your system working? They most likely cut off the end of one of the panels and replaced it.
Absolutely not
Check your monitoring system to make sure all the panels are functional.  That was intentionally cut off, and likely replaced.  Most likely just had an installer leave their trash lying around on the roof.     Without knowing more about your system, everything else would just be guessing.

  
Check the monitoring app.
The different manufacturer's MC4 connectors aren't properly intercompatible. When replacing a panel, its better to replace all that connectors that are opened. Even if the connectors are of same make, it might be safer to change the old connectors to prevent future issues.
Hi all! I know nothing about solar, but I found these after a windy night sitting on the floor outside. Are these just old parts or could this be a terrible install/replacement? And if the latter, is this a safety issue? Thank you!
Contractors are slobs. Every one that's worked on my place have done a sht job of cleanup, if any at all. Save one of them for future reference in case you have to find a different company to work on it.
Makes me think someone replaced mod, opti or micro connectors, if so it’s not a great thing to do.
No the installers probably needed a male MC to make connection , trash they forgot to pick up is all is my guess
No. Workers drop shit. It rolls off.
Nop
No
Can't speak for solar panel installers but when I used to do satellite dish installs anything we cut outside pretty much fell where it may, on the nicer houses where the home owners looked anal I would minimize the drops and do the cutting of cable so things fell in my toolbox, but time is money so some small mess will always occur.

Likely the same here, cut connections for some reason, installed new connectors to complete repair and just let the chips fall where they may.
This is a converter to wireless power I guess.
Think this is what happened, thank you!
>or they just didn't clean up after themselves.

99.999% this is the case.
Responded to another comment, but yup, generating 4.5-4.8kw. Thank you!
My Tesla app shows "Generating" and 4.8kW. Candidly, I don't check the amount being generated often, but I think this seems up to snuff. So must have been lazy replacement installers leaving their stuff there, thank you!
>floor outside.

you mean the GROUND?
If I’m replacing a panel, and there’s even a slight suspicion that one of those leads could be bad/loose I’m cutting off the old one and crimping a new one myself. 

These guys just messed up by leaving their trash in your yard 😆
Technically that voids the warranty of the panel. Don’t mention it to the manufacturer if you ever have a warranty claim.
Inaccurate. 

Source: work for a manufacture and have many friends in manufacturing side of the industry.
>I’m anticipating a gradual move to going completely off grid when the technology is caught up.

What part of current tech is your sticking point at the moment?
Tech is caught up. What do you mean bypass your 100A panel?

You can set up your own off grid system with grid backup no problem. Upgrade as you go if you want.

 100A is plenty of power, most people don't realize how rare it is to use more than 100A of power at 240v.
I'm just going to ask, why not update the panel?
I mean no, you’re gonna need some kind of panel, otherwise how are you gonna distribute power to your house’s circuits?
With the highest rates in the country are you with PG&E?  If so with PG&E you will want batteries.  They are penalizing everyone who has solar or is about to install solar.  Do you know what rate plan you are on?
>My rates are literally the highest in the country. 

Oh, your utility is SDG&E?
The “I don’t want to change my lifestyle” part
It will cost a couple thousand just to update from 100 to 125. Getting all the way to 200 would be five figures. Huge amounts of money just to be more dependent on an agency that I despise.
Sdge. I just made the cutoff the be grandfathered in to the older net metering scheme. CPUC cut the legs out from under residential rooftop and it sucks.
Lifestyle doesn't have to change.... 

Maybe OP is space constrained, and they mean current storage tech is too bulky.... but apart from something like that, I can't immediately think of anything the current tech can not do as far as off grid.  Battery? Generator? Solar? Mix of those? All possible with today's tech in a reliable, automated, safe fashion with monitoring, apps, reporting as you like.
Wow!  I have had people upgrading from a 100 amp panel to a 200 amp span panel which is a smart panel giving you lots of Integrations all for under 6 grand. Is part of the reason your cost would be five figures to go to a 200 amp panel due to a lot of charges related to increasing service to your home like trenching and such?
And you think that going offgrid with all the appliances you’d use with a 200A electrical panel would be cheap…?
A battery costs more than a service upgrade
LOL I posted about sarcastically questioning if you were SDG&E...

So you have a plan set?  What does it say?  Are you de-rating?
90% is the trenching. I have friends that aren’t underground that have upgraded for a fraction. I can’t believe they didn’t future proof the undergrounding.
And the projected rate increases make a battery look cheaper by the year.
Ahh, yes. If you have to upgrade service run too and part of that is underground, especially under paved surface, then big $ increase.
You hit nail on the head.
ENRON?
Don't worry about it. Texas will ban renewable energy in a months.
The fact of the matter is that renewable energy EVERYWHERE, without government subsidies and laws forcing and incentivizing adoption of renewable energy, is more expensive than conventional fossil fuel energy. 

A purely economic case without government intervention, renewable power costs more.
Sounds like you can buy into "community solar" without putting actual panels on your roof.   What are you expecting
Quite the opposite.   Texas is heavily investing in renewables, investing in transmission infrastructure to transfer those renewables and battery storage to stabilize those renewables.
Texas produces the most renewable energy in the country.
Like Alberta did?  Lame.
Good thing there are no subsidies in the fossil industry to really balance the scales….
adding /s for sarcasm...
Very very wrong.   Texas is the prime example.   Texas has very few government subsidies for renewables and yet they have more renewable energy than any other state in the country.   It was on economics alone.   Economics beats fossil fuels every time
I mean you usually buy solar to reduce your power bill, not increase it. This is where I am not understanding who / why anyone would pay this given their number basically say at minimum your going to be paying a few bucks a month more than you are now, but possibly a lot more money extra per month if the panels do not produce what they estimate.
Don't forget to place /s for sarcasm.
What is most economical is to have a mix. Install enough wind and solar to at least meet minimum demand, then use natural gas for the rest.
ROFL you need to educate yourself if you think that government intervention and mandated renewable obligations is NOT the reason for so much renewable energy in Texas.
For most people, they buy solar panels because they think they are reducing their power bill...but in reality they are increasing it.    What you are doing with a project like this is securing your power costs from future price increases.
And therein lies the problem.    What is the mix.   Wind and solar are much cheaper per kwh than gas.   So in normal conditions, the mix is 80 or 90% renewable.   But during periods or reliability with low wind and low sun, maybe the better mix is 20 or 30% renewables.   So where does it average out at the end or the day?
With a level playing field and zero subsidies wind is 40% cheaper than gas and solar is 30% cheaper than gas.   This of course doesn't account for the cost of reliability but because ERCOT is an electricity only market renewables win out every day.    Yes, there were some government programs like CREZ but those were ultimately industry funded.   And sure we had a mandate back in the day, but if that mandate was the reason for investment in renewables then why did we exceed the mandate by 5x and almost 20 years ahead of schedule.   



Reality is that solar panels and windmills are stupid cheap
If they really leveled the playing field and removed the tariffs from imported solar panels it would crash the energy sector. Even worse is once the new generation of battery tech starts to hit the market it will make it to where it makes many houses to disconnect from the grid outright. 

Low cost panels + low cost battery = a shit ton of very unhappy shareholders. It will be interesting to see how lobbying keeps the prices of panels and batteries inflated or if states like Texas find a way to make having panels illegal (because they are already trying to).
Look up renewable energy credit trading, that will explain a lot more. Wind and solar assets don’t just sell electricity, they profit from an additional revenue stream from generating and selling renewable energy credits in competitive markets to allow non-renewable energy producers to meet their renewable obligations. 

Most renewable assets are not profitable non sustainable on their own without the added revenue stream from selling REC’s.
That's a good point actually.  The tariffs on solar panels are actually a huge government incentive for fossil fuels.   Even with this handicap to solar, solar is still 30% cheaper than natural gas
Yes...so....you are saying....Texas has an SREC market?   Where do I sell mine?
First, I see you're in the early part of your annual billing cycle, so a lot of those charges may end up being cancelled out by excess generation when summer rolls around. In effect you're borrowing energy from SCE.

You can only add maybe one or two panels without getting moved to NEM 3.0, which is a whole other ballgame. You will also have a hard time finding someone to do such a small job, or it'll be expensive.

Usually with grandfathered NEM 2.0 systems, the approach is to get as much mileage out of the system as possible. This can involve a) optimizing your rate plan and the timing of your consumption, and b) installing a battery to make your off-peak production offset your on-peak consumption.

Edit: Okay, so it looks like this is due to the addition of an EV? Yeah, the above ideas only work up until a point, after which you absolutely need more panels. So I'd say just enjoy the savings from not needing to buy gas.
Holy F electricity is expensive in cal. I live in texas and I pay about 0.125 per kwh
Unfortunately you got an EV that you didn't plan for when you got your system so your option is really only a battery, so you have to see if the numbers work.

You cannot increase your system size by more than 1 kW, if you do that will take you from NEM 2.0 to NBT (NEM 3.0) which will gut your credits, talk about some serious sticker shock then.  So that option is off the table.

You're already on FERA and medical baseline, so you pretty much pay rock bottom pricing and you have a higher baseline credit.

You could do a detailed analysis, but at this point unless you get a battery at rock bottom pricing or DIY I don't see how this pencils out for you.
What happened in August 2023 to cause that increase in usage?
Do you know your current annual consumption? It looks like you might have bought an EV in August? Can you compare your usage between this August to last August, this September to last September, this October to last October and this November to last November? By doing that, you should be able to figure out how much extra kWh your EV is using. Then add this extra kWh to Jan-July usage to get an estimated annual consumption. 

Next is to find out how much more energy do you need to get to 100% offset. Once you know how much more energy you need, you can try to get quotes to get that. Just keep in mind that by doing that, you will be forced to switch to NEM3.0 and you will need at least one battery to make it work. So you can check how much it will cost you, and then compare it with your current set up to see which one is cheaper. The price of battery are still very high, so chances are, the money that cost you to bring your system back to 100% offset will be higher than just paying the extra consumption with current set up.

If it's more expensive, then you can just wait and shop for quotes again when the battery price goes down. As long as you know what you need, all you need to do is just wait for the right price.
If you are going to be a net consumer at the end of the year the prime rate plan might workout better especially with so much driving\\charging.
I'm not an expert but I am in SoCal and on SCE. I think you are on the wrong plan. You should be on TOU-D-Prime. That's the lowest rate plan and the one for EV's. Look at the lowest priced times to charge during the proper season, and do it then. We have an 8.8 system and turned on July 18 so similar to your sitch, but our usage is much less.
Need more power, which means more panels. Unless your SCE bill was $650 or more, you need more panels to offset the energy you require
I mean, they could charge the car off grid, right!? They might not even need a battery since the car is a battery, or just buy a smallish one, or just throw away the power when the car is in use.

Can you have a grid connected and non grid connected system on the same roof?
You can add a battery while staying grandfathered into your net metering with the Solar but you cannot add panels without removing the grandfathered net metering to your current system

- yours truly,
A solar Consultant 15 years in the space
Ca solar company owner here, the 💩part is that if you don’t do anything about this your $200/mo bill is going to be at $300/mo in 3 yrs with the approved SCE rate hikes.

Only way to fix your true up is with more panels and sufficient battery back up to combat NEM 3. Everybody talks about not voiding your NEM 2 but all you’re doing is delaying the inevitable. 

Run some numbers on an add-on system and see what your savings would be before giving up 🤙
Yeah this is the right advice. If you add more than 10% capacity, it'll trigger a move from NEM2 to NEM3, and you'll actually be in a way worse scenario.
When you say OP can only increase their PV system by 1kW, how is that measured?
Eg if someone has a 5kW string inverter, and 6 kW of PV. Could they replace their inverter with a 6kW inverter and add 3kW of PV? That system would only be 1kW larger on the AC side but it would make a lot more kWh.
How can you tell if you’re on NEM 2 or 3 by looking at the snapshots? I’m SCE and bought a house with solar in August 2023. 

I’ve been getting conflicting information about grandfathering or not.
I got the tesla in May, charged with standard plug 110v until late July, August basically I added the fast charging 220v? (14-50 nema). Can the tesla really cost $200 each month? Sounds insane and almost the same as gas
I started fast charging my Tesla in late July/ August. I got it in May and was doing the standard 110v wall plug in charge. The Tesla app says i am using about 500kwh a month. I feel like it was pointless to go electric if costs are nearly the same as gas. I failed to do more research it looks like. I find it odd that the $200 bill each month since August is just from the Tesla. It is as if my solar panels are not making any dent to the bill.
I taken a look at the plan but my current discounts are not able to be used on the PRIME plan. I think my bill would be higher than it is now
The utilities use CEC-AC, which follows the panel capacity. So no, it's not possible to do a big "behind-the-inverter" expansion.
For the OP, he installed solar over a year ago, which would be NEM 2.0.

Look at your bill, it will have the NEM version on there (1 or 2).  As far as grandfathering, you will have to track down the original install/interconnect date.
>I’m SCE and bought a house with solar in August 2023.

Presumably that solar was installed earlier and received a PTO under NEM 2.0. If it is not on your bill you can request a copy of the NEM agreement or the PTO email from our utility. I have seen a lot of people confused about what is grandfathered and what is not. The only think that is clear to me is that rates are not grandfathered, and they change as many as two times a year.
Are you only ever charging your car in super off-peak times?
With electricity rates as high as they are in California now, yes, it is almost the same as gas. It is why the EV "revolution" will fail. EV uptake will mean more electricity usage, which will mean higher prices, which will push people back to gas.

Tesla Model Y - 28kwh/100mi (that's being generous, but it's the official rating)
15,000 mi year = 4200 kwh/yr * $0.38/kw = $1596/yr

Toyota RAV4 Hybrid = 39mpg
15,000 mi year = 384 gallons * $4.35/gal = $1673/yr

They are within spitting distance. Electricity rate increases in California will likely outpace gas price increases over the next couple of years. CPUC just approved a 22% increase. This assumes you are charging at off-peak. If you do any on-peak charging, the Tesla will be significantly more expensive.

There are other reasons to like EVs, but in California, it is not a money-saving proposition.
To answer the question, yes it can.

To beat out gas we have to get to L2 charging (more about that in a moment) and seek out the lowest TOU and plan.

1. L1 charging is about 9% or more expensive. Why?  Because when the EV (I've seen this on our Leaf and Tesla) is charging there is other gear turned on that can consume 100 or more Watts that is not going to the battery.  L2 reduces charge times and is more efficient.
2. TOU and plan.  This requires some work to figure out.  And with Winter rates in effect what research I did a month or so ago is invalid so get in there to find the lowest rate TOU for the EV charging.
3. We have a Tesla as well.  It took a few tries to dial in the charging but for us on SDGE TOU-DR1 the TOUs are a bit complicated so I went with Ready For Departure by 6AM.  This means the car figures out how to get a full charge by 6AM.  Our lowest rate 7 days a week is midnight to 6AM.  SCE has different plans so you have to dig into that.

Even with 2 EVs we have been seeing the mythical zero electric bill for most months.  See [https://imgur.com/a/iEsASe0](https://imgur.com/a/iEsASe0)

The scheme I use is buy low sell high.  I consume as much as I can during super off-peak hours and avoid the on-peak TOU.  The results speak for themselves.  At first folk talked about NBC (non-bypassable-charges) so I would use my solar watt hours and avoid the grid.  But that turned out to be non-optimal for the bottom line.
> Can the tesla really cost $200 each month? Sounds insane and almost the same as gas

I have never come close to costing as much as gasoline with my Teslas. At $0.50 per kWh and 4 miles per kWh that is $0.125 per mile for electricity versus a 20 MPG consumption of $5/gallon gas which would be $0.25 per mile.  I never charge at peak rates and often charge during the day from excess solar so my cost per mile from charging at home is a lot less.
Your system was probably at close to 100% offset before you got the Tesla, so after you got it, you are down to maybe 70% offset.

As in your 3rd image stated, you're in the 2nd month of your 12-month cycle and November to February usually are the lowest production months. You can wait till next October to really find out how much extra this EV will cost you. Tesla model 3 and model Y both has an avg of 3.3 miles per kWh, so if you're using 500 kWh each month, your monthly milage is about 1650 miles. If you were to drive a gas car with 30MPG, it would cost you roughly 55 gallons of gas. Even if gas price is $4 per gallon, it would've costed you $220 per month. So you're still saving a bit with EV. 

Before you look into solar, there are some other things you might consider. Insulation is one of the things that I recommend to people. A well insulated house (attic, all exterior walls and floor/crawlspace) can trap warm/cool air in the house much longer. Another thing you can consider is upgrading your windows. Double pane windows and/or tint your west/south facing large windows can also keep the temperature stable in the house. Also, check and seal all doors and windows, this maybe the cheapest and easiest to do even by yourself.
Unless you drive like a race car driver I’m sure it’s cheaper than gas would be. Teslas get about 4 miles per kw/h ( when driven normally)so do you drive about two thousand miles a month?
When do you charge your EV?

You can schedule it to charge when electricity is really cheap.
With PG&E my PTO approval from the NEM application only lists one size: "Total Effective Inverter Nameplate Rating: X.XXX kW"

They don't care about the panel (DC) rating because it is a meaningless number and has no possibility of making it to their equipment in that form. They base their "size" off of inverter AC output. 

You could add infinity number of panels, if it doesn't increase the inverter size, it should have no impact on the amount you are capable of feeding to the grid, and shouldn't affect NEM approval. However, I don't think that is clearly spelled out.
Original install date was about 5 years ago. 

I called an SCE rep and they said they were paying $0.07 per kWh, wasn’t sure if that was for me specifically or general NEM3.0. 

Will look on my bill, thanks!
I was charging off peak times 10pm-2am and then switched over just recently to 3am-8am
Most of the U.S. has good electricity pricing. I pay 7-8 cents/kwh overnight (total cost). But not many people in Cali are charging at 38 cents per kwh. Although there are now perhaps thousand of EV owners that don't have home charging, which makes running an EV expensive.

The only state more expensive than California is probably Hawaii. But per household electrical usage in Hawaii is very low.
>With electricity rates as high as they are in California now, yes, it is almost the same as gas.

Not according to my calculations which I posted earlier and again here to be redundant:

At $0.50 per kWh and 4 miles per kWh that is $0.125 per mile for electricity versus a 20 MPG consumption of $5/gallon gas which would be $0.25 per mile.  Of course I never charge at peak rates except on the road so my cost is typically $0.25/kWh which brings my cost per mile to less that $0.07 per mile. Plus I have not oi changes and other associated expenses. For example I put 120,000 miles on a Tesla Model X and never had to replace the brakes because of regenerative braking.

This year in the USA EVs will sell over one million vehicles and I would hardly call that a failure. The sales  numbers in Europe and China are even more.
I said this above, but 20MPG is not common for a modern car with similar proportions to an EV. My RAV4 Hybrid gets 40+MPG and current gas prices are well under $5/gallon ($4.35 when I filled up yesterday... in the most expensive state for gas in continental US)

That's $0.10875 per mile.
What do you mean by offset?
About 1500 miles a month
I charge late night after 10pm but recently started charging during the day when my panels are producing in the hopes it helps lower the bill.
You're reading too much into the fact that the approval email only contains one number. It's just a summary, and the inverter nameplate rating is what PG&E happened to think was good to put in that summary. The NEM application paperwork contains your number and model of panels, as well as the CEC-AC rating of the full.

If you don't want to believe me, take a look at [PG&E's NEM2 sunset FAQ](https://www.pge.com/assets/pge/docs/about/doing-business-with-pge/nem2-sunset-faq.pdf). It says that system size is determined by:

>The lesser of inverter nameplate capacity (kW) or maximum solar output (CEC-AC rating)

~~So the inverter capacity number can help, but only up until a point. You're still going to run afoul of the rules if you expand your panels too much.~~

Edit: Okay, this seems to be something particular to PG&E. SCE and SDG&E don't cap the size at the inverter capacity.
Yeah this is right - i noticed on my NEM2 applications, it was all about inverter, not panels
>Original install date was about 5 years ago.

That does sound like NEM 2.0/

>I called an SCE rep and they said they were paying $0.07 per kWh

That is confusisng and sounds more like the Avoided Cost rate for NEM 3.0. My bills from SCE and PG&E both list the rate plan on the bill. If yours is not listed you may be able to find it on the online portal. Your bill should show the rate for each TOU period along with the kWhs for each of those periods.
Ok but when are your super off-peak hours on this rate plan? According to the website, that’s 8am to 4pm during the winter. According to your bill, you are exporting power during this window, but you really want to be using power then. So on this rate plan during the winter, you should charge your car from 8am to 4pm. During the summer, you can go back to charging overnight. 

If that doesn’t work for your life… because, like, you aren’t home during the day, you might want to look at a different rate plan, or adding a battery… but the economics of both are complicated so definitely investigate carefully.
All of your calculations are overly optimistic. 

You are comparing THE most efficient EV against the gas mileage of pickup truck. A modern ICE engine will get significantly better mileage than 20 MPG, especially if you compare similar body styles with a hybrid engine. 

Your energy costs are reasonable for electricity anywhere but California, but your gas prices are not. The national average is $3.18/gallon right now. Even California is well under $5/gallon... and although they hit a peak higher than that, it was for a short time and the average on the year is much closer to current prices. 

You are correct about many of the benefits of EVs, my point was that as EVs become more common, they will have a huge impact on the grid, which will lead to spiking energy costs and the benefits will deteriorate. When there is no longer a cost benefit, many people will elect to stick with ICE vehicles.
Hybrids are a good bridge for many people. Long term the complexity has to result in more repair costs compared to the simplicity of an EV drive train.
Meaning your production is enough to cover your consumption by a percentage. 100% offset means you have no true up bill.
Well, there you go. What kind of mileage did you get with your old car?  When I figured it out for me, gas would need to be about 2.30 a gallon for it to have been cheaper than electric.
Some quick math comparing gas vs electricity for 1500 miles per month.

A gas car would get you about 30 miles per gallon so you would end up buying about 50 gallons of gas per month to cover this driving. My local Arco here in SoCal is currently $4.60/ gallon which would cost about $230.

Your electric car is getting you about 3 miles per kWh which is 500 kWhs per month to cover the same 1500 miles. I’m with Southern California Edison and my current lowest rate under their NEM prime you plan is $0.23 per kWh. 500 kWh times $0.23 is $115.

So I would say you are still saving about $115 even when you are paying for 100% of the electricity going into the car and you end up saving even more if you end up with any surplus credits. 

It is actually optimal to end the year without any excess credits. The problem with generating more kWhs than you use at your true up is that the excess credits get paid out at a significantly lower rate than the credits are worth. If you have an off peak credit worth $0.23 per credit it may have a Net Surplus Compensation Rate (NSCR) as low as $0.05 or as high as $0.08 depending on the month.
With NEM2.0, it doesn't matter what time you charge your EV as long as it's NOT during the peak hours. 

You might be paying a couple hundred dollars on your next true up bill, but I can pretty guarantee it'll still be cheaper if you were to drive a gas car and have a $0 true up.
What you need to figure out is:

what time of day is buying electricity from the grid cheapest?

What time of day is selling PV energy to the grid the best?

What time of day is selling PV to the grid the worst?
The lesser of inverter nameplate capacity (kW) or maximum solar output (CEC-AC rating)

That makes it seem like you could really overload your inverter with PV and stay on NEM 2
>my point was that as EVs become more common, they will have a huge impact on the grid,

I don't agree. The grid is only used 40% in average. Most EVs charge overnight when rates are low and demand is low. Some with Solar, charge with excess solar so no additional demand on the grid.
Possibly for PG&E, although it would really limit the marginal benefit from more panels after a certain point. OP is under SCE, and SCE's policy only mentions CEC-AC, which basically rules out this approach.
Yeah, eventually you'd get decreasing returns, but going 1.1:1 DC:AC ration up to 1.3 or 1.4 would be a big increase in energy production.
I agree and that would be an approach that would have less chance of triggering an exception report to the IOU. I am a bit of a renegade and have done that in both PG&E and SCE and in both cases nothing has happend. That is  not to say it is without risks and the risk in a severe economic penalty if I were forced into NEM 3.0.
I dont work in California, so I'm not sure how things are there. But don't you submit your proposed PV design application with the utility first? Or does the utility application itself trigger the change to NEM3?
Please put blocking diodes in series with each parallel panel to avoid power loss from the higher voltage string backwards into the lower voltage string. Not talking about the antiparallel diodes that are already built in.
Are they TIGO optimizers?
Search for Deye mppt current issues. Remove 8 panels on that parallel and see what happens.
Wouldn’t blocking diode clip negative power line signal being sent by Tigo rapid signal shut down transmitter?
Tigo TS4-A-2F
I did the same. I removed 8 series string from PV2 and the remaining 8 produces current. And did the same step for other 8 they seems to be working. The issue only happens when 8*2 are put in parallel.
Each series blocking diode simply keeps the parallel strings from interfering with each other. One picture, thousand words. Please scroll this down and see the schematic: [https://diysolarforum.com/threads/bypass-pass-thru-diodes.5846/](https://diysolarforum.com/threads/bypass-pass-thru-diodes.5846/)
The F series has had some issues.  Call their tech line.
Turn off the mppt function in the inverter, and try again.
Let me try that
It's possible that it draws current at a single voltage, whatever voltage mppt algorithm can suck the most current, IU curve. Since having two strings in a single mppt, you have two different voltages.
That’s the good news. The bad news is that the higher voltage panel string will waste power to heat up the lower voltage panel string.
Only when the string switches to resistance, like being shaded, but still this is an issue with 3 parallels or more, when it comes to reverse current bias that exceeds the panel specs, with just 2 strings I wouldn't worry about it.
I’m not worried about it either. It’s not my system though. :o)
The Envoy's load is negligible, like a single-digit number of watts. The feeders just need to be able to carry 125% of continuous inverter output current.
Yeah that’s what I’ve been told in the past. It’s never added to the calculation. Should there be a derating factor? I think for my area and the ambient temp it’s .87
Well yeah, but that's just standard electrical code stuff at that point. Wire type, temperature rating, conduit fill, etc.
Okay cool so my calculations were correct. Thank you for your help!
These don’t work as great as you may want them to, mostly due to the fact the panels themselves can leak water. The best solution would be a secondary roof type structure underneath if you want full waterproofing.
[Renvu](https://www.renvu.com/BLIKIR-Panels-Gap-EPDM-T-Gasket-Seal-Strip-55-Meter-Reel) appears to carry that and they're US based.
I’ve tried what you’re trying to do. It sucks to do and doesn’t work very well. It’ll get moved around if you live in a snowy area too. A gutter under the gaps or secondary roof under the mods if the best way to go. If you go secondary roof, make it white for some added sunlight reflection
[Aliexpress](https://www.aliexpress.com/w/wholesale-solar-panel-T-strip-seal.html?spm=a2g0o.detail.search.0)
You are about to see how non square everything is up there.  I have had to do something like this and was temporarily marginally successful.  I think a tape type solution would maybe work but would be pretty ugly.

You also have to get the correct size of that material and it will probably vary a bit across the array. I would think you may have an issue sourcing all the correct size material if you are ordering it. There will be trial and error seeing what fits good.
You want what in the what now?
That looks a lot like Trim-A-Slab… used to replace the boards in the expansion joints in your driveway.
Not after full water proofing, just the drips between the panels
You will also want some glue for joins. https://www.amazon.com/YUE-Adhesive-bonding-Between-Material/dp/B09NCBB9CM/
Thank you
I checked just for the heck of it and they still decide to charge you for freight shipping which is about $400!(What a joke) I searched the product description and it led me to [ebay](https://www.ebay.com/itm/234589584373) where they don't charge you an astronomical amount for shipping.
I think thats a bug. I have ordered this same product last year and it was under $25 to ship from renvu
Please add the solar quote flair to all posts about quotes.
Including the conventional roofing system and materials (eg asphalt shingles) in the Federal ITC is likely tax fraud. 

Don’t rely on roofers or solar installers to be knowledgeable about tax law or policy.
Would you seriously consider a 6% YoY increase? That's absurd.
Looks like tax scamming to me
$285/month for 25 years at 6.99% has a present value of about $40,000

That means someone is willing to pay $40k today for 25 years of $285/month payments.

You can probably find that loan yourself if you work at it.

Are you willing to pay $40k cash for this contract?  If not, this isn't the deal for you.

Forget about REC, forget about net metering, forget about tax credits.  Those are useful to look at your monthly cash flow -- but they don't tell you about the cost of the system.
Get multiple quotes. This quote is absurdly expensive. Run away from this deal don’t even think about walking away from this deal
What state are you in?

Does your utility have net metering?

I have GAF shingles as well and I'm very happy with it. The price for solar shingles are much higher than regular panels but I personally it's worth the extra because of the design and you don't have to worry about leakage problem because the panels are literally nailed onto the shingles.

Keep in mind that if this is a lease, you'll have to put the federal tax credit back to your loan in order to keep the payment amount at $285 for the entire 25 years. So you are actually paying a total of $85500 for the entire system. If possible, I would suggest getting a personal loan or 401k loan to purchase the system so you can pocket the tax credit.
Price Per Watt Regardless of System Size
Whether you're considering a small residential solar panel system or a larger commercial installation, the price per watt remains a constant factor. This means that regardless of the size of your system, you can always evaluate the price per watt to ensure you're receiving good value for your investment.
Calculating Price Per Watt
Calculating the price per watt is a straightforward process. Simply divide the total cost of your solar panel system by the estimated total wattage it will produce. For example, if your system costs $10,000 and is expected to produce 3,500 watts (3.5kW), the price per watt would be calculated as follows:
Price per watt = Total cost of system / Total wattage produced 
Price per watt = $10,000 / 3,500 watts (or 3.5kW)
Price per watt = $2.86/watt
In this example, the price per watt is slightly higher than the $2.70 benchmark. It's crucial to conduct proper research and obtain multiple quotes to find the best possible price per watt for your specific requirements.
Sales Reps and Lender Involvement
When exploring solar panel system purchases, you may encounter sales reps and lenders who play a role in the pricing. It's important to note that their involvement can potentially increase the price per watt by more than $2. Here are a few reasons this might occur:
Sales Reps: Sales representatives of solar companies often earn commissions based on the price of the system. To increase their earnings, they might upsell additional features or more expensive equipment, which can increase the total cost of the system.
Lenders: Lenders who provide financing options for solar panel purchases may charge interest rates or fees that can significantly impact the price per watt. It's essential to carefully review the terms and conditions of the financing agreement to understand the true cost of the system over time.
This quote is so high they are charging you a 5.39ppw.
Thank you for all your comments. After reading all of them this seems to be a combination of disgusting, predatory and illegal. Can’t wait for them to follow up with me so I an ask some questions ;)
just the pure fact they think your bill is going up 6% annually is a red flag for me.

that price looks outrageously high. 

10kw system shouldnt be much more than 20k IMHO. 

Your system covering 100% of electricity usage should not cost more than 10-12 years of your electricity usage. 

If it is costing  more than that, there are much better investments.  

i.e. if the system is costing you 20 years worth of electricity, you would be better off taking the money and investing it at 5% and using the interest earned to pay your electricity bill.


There is way to much risk getting a system that takes more than 10 years to pay for itself.
I know it doesn't help you but these prices are unbelievable high. A 9 kW setup including installation is around 5k Euro here at the moment
Hi OP,

I've been in the operations side of the solar industry for about 10yrs.

All in all, not a bad price considering what you're getting.

REC panels are definitely a tier 1 panel and GAF shingles are very nice.

A couple of questions I had are 

1. What type of inverter are you getting (Solaredge, Enphase, APSystems, etc...)?
2. Are you financing the system or are you paying cash?

While I see u/mummy_whilster saying that including the roofing costs with your solar costs is "fraud". These costs are normally rolled into a solar deal because they play into the "Solar Ready" costs of the project allowing the barrier of entry to get into solar energy to be a lot lower. You would be very very surprised if you saw the list of approved "Solar Ready or energy efficiency" adders that you can include in a deal from AC units all the way to getting turf for your yard (while still claiming the 30% federal ITC).

So far from what I've found while reverse engineering some of the info here is you're paying around $4.46/watt ($41.234.46 total cost) which if you're financing this project it is a smoking deal!! If you're paying cash, I would definitely try to negotiate a bit. National average for "solar only" when you're financing is around $5.50/watt, if you're paying cash I would look to be around $3.00/watt ($27,720). 

Another thing I would look into is these solar companies are falling like flies lately. So ensure your installer is in a decent position financially for your workmanship warranty.
This is a great deal!
It’s definitely a good finance rate. As for the total cost it would come down to how much they’re charging for the roof. 9.24kw system shouldn’t be any more than 30k.. 25k extra sounds like a lot for only one side of the roof
I thought the federal incentive was the cost of the entire system. What a ridiculous price for under 10kw.
Just to give you an idea, I had a 11kw system (REC Panels) WITH 30kwh of battery put in in 2021 for 58k in California. (so my entire system cost is lower than your panel only cost)

The panels' side of the project itself was $2.35/kw, and I got a fantastic deal on the battery.

&#x200B;

Go use energysage and see what other bids come up with.
I’m pretty clueless when it comes to these things, but I think the only way panels make sense is if they reduce your monthly energy cost with $0 down. Basically (loan payment + consumption) must be immediately lower than (current consumption). Is this oversimplified? Are there things I’m not considering here?
Too high! Find another quote.
This is a rip off. We just got the same way system installed for 24k in AZ.
Total cost is 48k?

I've seen others do the same.. either roof or structure
What is the square footage of the roof?
6% rising annually is way too high. The developers try to compare to utility rate increases, but that is not relevant to their business model (though it might be to yours).   


They should also give you a full-purchase quote, which is broken down into cost for the solar installation and cost for the roof replacement. The solar part shouldn't be more than $30K ($3/W) before tax credits; the roof part you can compare fairly with the cost of roofs in your area.  


Good luck!
I am a solar system manufacturer and we are all factory priced.
25 years lol
You’re joking right? 6.99 is pretty in the middle nowadays
You are being charged $5.96/watt including the roof slope. You are being grossly overcharged.
Supposedly the solar company owns the roof company that will do the work. I’m getting as many quotes as possible from other local installers
It's not fraud. Solar companies commonly add the reroof to the loan.
Not sure what state this is in, but most lenders have a cap on PPW that varies by state. They're likely including the roof cost to the HO (so it looks legit), but "maxing out" the PPW to the lender so it looks like part of the solar loan so the total cost qualifies for the tax credit.
For the same usage my bill use to be over $100 less a few years ago, but yeah the 6% seems way out there
The quote in this post is for a regular roof with regular solar panels on it. Not solar shingles.
Maine and yes this includes net metering. The 7% 25 year long loan is what is currently scaring me away from this.
This is a lot to read I know, so just to sum up:
Right now you’re over $5.50/watt (including financing and before tax credit). You need to find out what your Price Per Watt is before financing (cash) and before the tax credit. A good deal is around $2.60-$2.70. A great deal would be $2.40-$2.50

Other people please correct me if I’m wrong. But it says your system is at 9.2kW, however your solar edge inverter is capped at 7.6kW, meaning you can’t go above that maximum production. Ask your sales rep to get you an SE10000. 


Double check that your sales reps’ company is REC installation certified to guarantee that 25year REC warranty.
Could you say price per watt a few more times? I think I missed one
It includes the roof.
Tell us how it goes
Solar in the USA is far more expensive than everywhere else, for some reason. In Australia it's around AU$1/watt fully installed which is around the price you quoted (9kW = AU$9k = €5.5k). In the USA, US$3/w (around €2.8/w) is considered a good price. Even a DIY installation is over US$2/w.

People in the USA get 30% back from the government as a tax credit, but that just means that the solar companies charge even more. The only winners with rebates are the contractors - the home owner never benefits from them. In my area, there's a $2500 rebate for installing a ducted heat pump HVAC (split system air conditioner), so most of the HVAC companies charge an extra $2500 for installations in the area.
Any input on this helps me. This includes new roof on one side and grid tie in which I hear is a pain and expensive to do.
/s
Op should have a roofing company work on fixing any roofing problems and not let a solar company handle repairing a roof.. with their 1000% markup.
That’s fine, but doing a conventional roof system at the same time or in series with a solar install doesn’t make the roof system itself entirely deductible. 

Following their advice would put you at risk. It has been a bit of the Wild West when it comes to this, but you should at least understand the risks before taking them.
> Supposedly the solar company owns the roof company that will do the work

doesn't matter. still tax fraud.
Just because something is commonly done does not make it legal or correct.

ETA: to clarify, I am only talking about the federal tax deduction. Adding it to the loan is fine. Deducting the conventional roof portion is generally not.
I've seen multiple PPA's offering 2.25 - 3% YoY increases. The math behind their "Savings" puts the utility YoY increase at 4-6%.

To offer a 6% yearly increase, what are they suggesting the actual annual percentage increase for cost of energy will be? How does this track historically?

These are the questions you should be asking yourself to sniff test something. I assume they are recouping the cost of the roof through this "additional" annual increase.

Nothing is free, friend.
It said in the Roof Details that this is a full strip and re-roof using GAF HD timberline architectural shingles. That is GAF's solar shingles.
Do you have any other loan options? Personal loan or 401k loan? 

I signed my contract with a loan as well but I made sure there's no early payoff penalty and I got a 401k loan after the first month and paid off the system.
I took a 15 year loan at 7%.   My total payments are 70% of my current utility payment.   I had the cash, but am convinced I am better off leaving the cash invested and simply “replace” my utility payment with a loan payment.   I put the extra savings back into my investments.   I validated this approach with my financial advisor and she told me it was roughly a wash…..but I feel better keeping my cash growing and lowering my cash flow…
Without knowing the rest of the details, 7.6kW AC is appropriate for 9.2kW DC in Maine.

It will likely take longer than the life of the inverter to make enough extra energy back to offset the increased cost of a larger inverter.
Keep in mind the quoted monthly price also includes the reroof.
It’s a copy and paste from this pdf I have lol. I know it’s a lot
We pay no tax at all for solar and also get 2000-3000 for a heatpump. US solar business is corrupted
A top quality panel 450 W is about 90 dollar. https://www.solar-outlet.nl
Heart to jump to conclusions without any info on the solar company and the cost of the roof
They'll probably do something sketchy like only charge "$100" for the reroof and include the rest of the cost in the solar contract (unitemized of course), so that it looks like it's all related to the solar system.
Last two years here for utility increases have been between 24 and 26%
I disagree. 

https://www.gaf.com/en-us/document-library/documents/Timberline_HD_Data_Sheet.pdf 

The solar ones explicitly have "solar" in the model name, 
https://www.gaf.energy/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/837_SM210_Timberline-Solar-Tech-Data-Sheet_4-2022.pdf
I’d have to check with local banks but 401k isn’t an option right now. I’m reaching out to a few more local places to get more quotes to compare.
Heat pumps are a whole other story in the USA lol. 

For ducted HVAC, you can get an "air conditioner" which can only cool, or a "heat pump" (often called a "reverse cycle air conditioner" in other countries) which can both heat and cool. 

Heat pumps cost thousands of dollars more than air conditioners, when the difference is literally just a reversing valve to change refrigerant direction! A cooling-only air conditioner **is** a heat pump, it's just wired to only go in one direction - move heat from inside the house to outside the house.

It's not uncommon for houses to have a gas furnace plus a regular air conditioner (since gas is much cheaper in some areas), but it's crazy that people are getting new cooling-only air conditioners installed when a reverse-cycle "heat pump HVAC" *shouldn't* cost much more.

The difference in manufacturing cost between them is small so I think the huge price difference is just a markup because it's the hot new thing (since it's significantly more efficient than traditional electric heating) and because of all the government/local grants for heat pumps.
wtf is wrong with the US Lol in terms of pricing for all these that are cheap/normal in other countries (coming from someone who lives in US)
Guess you are in NL then. Check out heat pump prices in Germany, you'll find them 2-3k cheaper than in NL. Same problem, installers are greedy.
But then you have to get it to the states... They have a steep import duty in Chinese panels.. $90, how do you figure that? The only 500W panel on that site was €202 https://www.solar-outlet.nl/longi-solar-510-wp-black-white-half-cut-perc.html
Yeah that’s gonna be a NO on this then just because of that….
And the 10 years prior?
You're right. I got the two products mixed up. Thanks for the correction.
I see. Yea, get a few more quote with traditional panels.
Sorry, bad example. It was just to make my point
Add a contract clause that says something like you can cancel contract at anytime and only pay for services that have been rendered. 

Cancel after roof install: best $100 roof ever. /s
Dunno. Only owned the place 4 years, and every year of that has been no less than 15%
CA (PG&E) has averaged 8% yoy since 2011, 14% yoy since 2015.  
Gotta love that 'free' clean energy...  
FWIW, it's 6% yoy since 2004, started climbing at 6%+ in 2011  


I pulled the trigger this year before NEM3 was adopted, which makes solar only viable if you add a $10K+ battery.  No bueno for ROI
I certainly will, appreciate your help
One of the things the sketchy places would have are good lawyers to draft their contracts and ensure it's very difficult to escape them.
Where is this?
Yeah I know all about it. 

I'm in CT I just went live with a 20kw system no battery because I'm on retail net metering. 20 year agreement.

Currently I can use a different supplier so I can arbitrage the higher export rate (.147) against the lower import rate (.126). I expected that will change.
Or literally at ai
Florida. Home of scams and criminal activity. 

At my rentals before I bought, I was prepaying for 14 years for a 10 year plan to build a new nuclear plant that they then decided to not build, and then the state said they could keep what we prepaid for, and instead started billing us to decommission the one they deliberately made inoperable.
Oklahoma has seen an average increase of 16% month over month for the last 13 years. The last 5 years have averaged 51%. 

Average electric bill in OKC in 2010 - 43$, current average electric bill - $218.

Private utilities have seen the largest increase in profit to dollars spent ratio out of any industry in the world.
Damn, I haven't seen $0.14 for a decade.  I'm at $0.44 and climbing.  


But they will graciously offer me $0.07 at true-up for any excess.
Likely most of those costs will be in the form of other charges instead of electric rate.  This means you pay those costs regardless of kWh usage, so no savings there.
It's even more reason to avoid PPA and buy a system outright. You get away from all of that nonsense, including the 6% increase which is seemingly fair but is still asinine.
.14 is the supply. Tack another .1 for delivery. YOu can't change delivery, only supplier rate. 

Still well under but worth noting.
Fuel charge that's equal in units to the electric use

Delivery charge that's equal in units to the electric use

The plant build prepayment and decom fee was based on your electric use too, not a flat fee.
The rate of 6.99 on this one is absolutely insane, that's one of the highest interest rates I've probably ever seen for a system on 25 yrs
Err… whole home backup isn't possible with meter main panels unless you can get a meter collar transfer switch that's compatible with your equipment. The busbars and internal wiring connections in meter main panels aren't really supposed to be modified.

The most you could do is back up the other panel by installing a transfer switch along the line that leads into it.
The Sol-Ark 15K (I only have one) manual has a line diagram for 400A service using two 15Ks.  See Page 54

https://www.sol-ark.com/wp-content/uploads/15K-2P_Manual.pdf

You'll need a few power distribution blocks (they make bigger and smaller blocks as well):
Ferraz Shawmut Power Distribution Block #MPDB69123: https://www.factorymation.com/MPDB69123

Ferraz Shawmut Polycarbonate safety covers #MPDBC6869: https://www.factorymation.com/MPDBC6869

Might be cheaper to parallel two 200A Fused AC Disconnects and two 200A Manual Transfer Switches than buying 400A versions.

Engineer775 on Youtube has done a few dual Sol-Ark 15K installs.
You need to be very careful about what "pay off" means.

The first possibility is just that all remaining payments of the lease are paid, but the lease continues. Vivint still owns the equipment, and at the end of the lease you may need to pay even more money to take ownership of it.

The second possibility is buying out the system. Only this one terminates the lease and results in full ownership of the equipment.
In most cases it means the homeowner owns the equipment after a PPA payoff and you will get the solar equipment just like how you get the water heater when you buy the house. Then it becomes your issue how to use and maintain it.
PPA’s are usually tied to a fixed rate of years, but there are options to pay off the PPA in the sense that you’re just buying out the panels at their approximate value. This value really depends on how old these thjngs are and/or what’s the estimated energy they will produce over the course of the remaining year(s).
It means that are paying the balance of the ppa. The system will have full coverage for the remaining years on ppa but it won’t be yours. You probably can buy it after the ppa term is over.
You can either take over payments and inherit the production guarantee and warranties or you can buy it out and own it in which case you only keep equipment manufacturers warranty.
Either way the buyer will want to understand which company will service the equipment in case they need a warranty repair.
Even if they own it now, most warranty stay in place with most companies. Just because you pay off the loan on your car, the 60000 mile warrarnty does not disappear at mile 19000.
Always check the contract.
I have not seen a study.  But imperial evidence shows a dusty solar panel only losses a few % in efficiency meaning it’s not worth it to clean it.
Im trying to do an essay on this but that means its not really worth it then
That what people have found.
Which concept would you suggest someone to look into?
Do an experiment
>Are these comparable inverters, or is one better than the other?

No. Enphase **is** microinverters, by comparison of fielded units APS, Hoymiles etc are still in Beta testing, the specs of the cheaper micros are lower, and you don't have the integrated grid backup or  bidi EV charging options.

It's not a given that if you went with the cheaper options you will have problems, but it's a risk vs cost thing you have to decide where your comfort level is, for equipment installed on your house that you expect to be there for a couple of decades.
Probably better to go with the Enphse IQ8A micro inverters which are better sized for those panels
The APsystems DS-3L is limited to 768W total.  So you'll probably get clipping with the 550W panel.  Best to go with a string inverter for larger sized panels.

The Enpase iQ8+ output is limited to 290W.  So you'll see clipping here too.

I'm not a fan of micro inverters and greatly prefer string inverters.
I am kind of leaning that way, but it's also due to the size of the roof. The smaller panels physically and wattage, take up more roof space, and it's rated at 0.5kW higher system. 

The larger 550w panels have slightly higher peak efficiency rating, but can't fit any more panels. I also struggle to find any good comparison between the Enphase stuff and the APs that's not done by APs.
There are other iq8 models that can support more voltage than that
From a brief read on the string inverter, if we didn't get some shading on the lower portion of the roof it would seem to make some sense. But seeing as how we do, then it would have drastic affects on the overall output of the system. 

I would like a system that matches the best that it can. 

Looking at the specs of the DS-3L, they say it can handle panels 550w+. Which would match the panels that this one company is offering. We are located just north of the US/Canada border, so I am unsure if that changes things.
Even the Enphase IQ8H is only 384W.  It to me, string inverters are superior in almost every way compared to micro inverters.  Who wants to get up on their roof to fix/replace a micro inverter if there is a problem.   If there is shading issues for certain panels, then a DC optimizer can be used.

This echos many of my thoughts on micro inverters: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4K_q7hGFLuo

Heck, if I want to use gigantic 750W bi-facial panels, which can easily exceed 800W with the bi-facial gains, micro inverters are just not going to work.

Whole home solutions should be paired with something like a Sol-Ark 15K / EG4 18KPV, etc.  

I have 37 460W panels and 30 550W panels connected to my Sol-Ark 15K and using two Growatt MIN 10K inverters for the AC Couple portion.  All in my garage.  No having to go back up on the roof for me.  Solar panels are very reliable.  I DIYd my whole system and I did a insane amount of research over the last three years before choosing my components.

My build: https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/comments/17qtkp0/
The new panels, have by-pass diodes in them which make the panel cut off portions of itself to keep the full amount power flowing through them.  If you have shade concerns, then a DC optimizer can be paired with those panels that have lots of shading.  String inverters are still the most viable here.  With the exception of the USA, the world uses string inverters.  Micro inverter companies lobbied to get the NEC to require per panel shutdown to push their products.

Panel shading test:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ur1HXsx09Jw
Have a look at this. He is unbiased and a great at explaining.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q6t0AAi5Jws
https://investor.enphase.com/news-releases/news-release-details/enphase-energy-launches-new-iq8p-microinverters-high-powered
> **Who wants to get up on their roof** to fix/replace a micro inverter if there is a problem.   If there is shading issues for certain panels, then a **DC optimizer** can be used.

And the optimisers are installed where?  Yup, on the roof.  A hailstone, rock, ball, damages a panel - you are going on the roof.  Critters damage wires - you're on the roof.  

Having one part of the whole system easy to access at ground level is only a small advantage when you think of the whole system.
Will have a look at that. I'm neither for or against any real system. I have other things that take precedence with my time for research, but i don't mind dipping in to understand a bit better. 

Thanks.
Will check it out thanks.
Well, up to 480W.  It's almost like Enhase expects their micro inverters to clip.  Warranty is less than half the length at 12 years.  Probably going to be pretty expensive too.

String inverters still look better in almost every way to me.
[removed]
Most people don't have room for the huge panels either...
Enphase warranties are 25 years.  Better than Solar edgez
> It's almost like Enhase expects their micro inverters to clip.

They do! [It makes economic sense most of the time.](https://support.enphase.com/s/article/Technical-Brief-Why-Is-My-PV-Module-Rating-Larger-Than-My-Inverter-Rating)
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
Unless they are getting absolutely caked on by tree sap and bird shit, common things like dust won't really decrease your production. I just let the rain wash and rinse my panels.
I’ve had solar panels in South Texas for 10+ years and have only sprayed them clean with a garden hose that has soft water.  I only do this when we have weeks without rain.
If it rains don't bother. And I'm saying this as someone that runs a solar business that offers panel cleaning. I tell people I'm happy to clean them if it's just for aesthetic reasons, because it's not going to have much effect
It's not.  I live in the Bay Area too and have only washed my panels once...and learned it was a waste of time.  It rains enough here that the rain will take care of them.

If for whatever reason you want to do it anyway, I filmed that one time.  All products are linked in description.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7oXOO63Py8Q
To clean our panels, I have a lifetime contract with Mother Nature.  She shows up whenever she feels like it, but does a great job.
Never. The difference between easing and not in the Bay Area is not even 5%.
Depends where you live and how much rain you usually get.
* The people saying "never" probably get rain regularly. 
* The people saying "periodically" probably don't get much rain.

I live in Virginia. We get a good rain at least once every 2 weeks. And a lot of wind. I don't plan to wash my panels unless we have a dry spell and they start to look real bad. Maybe once every 2 years proactively but I've only had em 2 months so i don't know.

When I lived in Vegas for 4 months, we got rain once. There, I'd have to clean them periodically.
Green Bay? San Francisco Bay? Tampa Bay?  A good number of areas call themselves "the bay area". 
Regardless, need to rinse is related to 2 items in my mind: how much soiling do they get as in is it a dusty area, or pollen laden with panels that are almost flat?   Other is does it rain often enough to remove it?
It doesn't need to be super frequent, just watch the readings and once it hits a threshold (you determine what that should be), hose them off.

Do it after dark or before sunup, and use a hose end diluter to mix in a rinse additive to help prevent mineral spotting.
A seemingly small amount of debris can lead to reduced efficiency.  Cleaning is important.
Almost never necessary.
Not important.  You can boost output a few percent if dirty but don't sweat it.
I find if you wash them it will rain the next day. And not that clean rain either.
Every six months is recommended.
I’m in the BayArea and getting some rain now, but have never washed panels….my comparative solar production chart for this quarter is more this year than last year if that really means anything.   
So far what rain there is seems to adequately clean throughout the year and I’m in the east bay with lots of trees.
Very low maintenance, from my experience.  If it rains every 1-2 weeks, you are good. If not, in the spring and fall maybe give it a quick rinse.
Once every year
I’ve had panels for a couple years and only washed them after some fires dropped a ton of ash on them and they were properly coated and rain wasn’t cutting it. Otherwise I leave them alone
Due to not having a lot of tilt, a bit of pollen, and some salt off the Gulf of Mexico here in the Bay Area too, I wash about twice a year.  We get decent rain here in Tampa Bay, but sometimes not during a high pollen time.
Don't touch them
Assuming the SF Bay Area....

&#x200B;

...we only clean our panels after a bad fire season.   The damned dust and ash drifting in on the winds, settling, and sticking to our panels.   

First time we hired someone who used a very small electric pressure washer and a "proprietary  environmentally safe" cleaner.   Looked very green to me.

The second time, I had a Ryobi Powerwasher.  Loaded it with Simple Green (environmentally safe) cleaner.  Sprayed my panels.  Let it set for 10 minutes or so.   Rinsed with clean water.

&#x200B;

Both times it had been bad fire season, I got maybe a 10% boost.
Side question; does it *hurt*?
I’m in SC and the two pollen seasons we have will leave your panels caked in yellow pollen that will stick even after heavy rains, or even tropical storms. I got mine washed after 3 years accumulation and it is noticeable.
Sacramento,

Never washed. Decrease performance is about 5-10 percent.

Not worth it to pay someone and not going to go up on a two story myself.

Even if you wash it, you will get 100% performance just for a week or two then it gets dirty again and you're back at 5-10 decrease performance.
This is really going to depend on your area… how much rain you’re getting, dust, dirt pollen….etc

for example if you live in the Great Plains down wind from a farm that is throwing dust everywhere, you probably should clean them more often. 

Also in Kentucky near the bourbon trail, legit mold from the distillery’s grow on all the homes for miles around there. People have to regularly power wash their homes or they turn black over time. That area in particular is probably require regular solar cleaning for optimum system performance. If you want to learn more there’s a lot of resources from [solar power world](https://www.solarpowerworldonline.com/), [energy sage](https://www.energysage.com/solar-panels/?utm_term=energysage&utm_campaign=ES+Branded+Terms&utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=ppc&hsa_acc=7376182020&hsa_cam=1717145178&hsa_grp=72875887891&hsa_ad=444403888224&hsa_src=g&hsa_tgt=kwd-303454569537&hsa_kw=energysage&hsa_mt=e&hsa_net=adwords&hsa_ver=3&gad_source=1&gbraid=0AAAAADhJFO6Ad-uxz3raKP18BT12L95Mz&gclid=CjwKCAiAvdCrBhBREiwAX6-6UmlmOFw__dS-P0LqW8fPsYtkh_8AWGQ8ujQ3g2AJkJONVpW9wWsHRBoCQMcQAvD_BwE), and [solar improve](https://www.solarimprove.com/solar-education)
Doesn’t rain much in our area and the dust is making a significant difference. I go up twice a year and have fun on the roof washing them
The Bay Area typically goes without rain for many months straight during spring/summer/fall.
Right.  Heat retention( not enough ventilation is more of the problem)…. You are in bay area, so not so much of a problem.
Do you notice any difference after you've sprayed the panels?
I think this is the answer I was looking for. I do think my output is pretty good, so I would say this is me trying to be  proactive. Thanks for the video link as well!
And it doesn't rain much here. 😂
Haha! Unfortunately not too often in CA at least not bearing rain.
Out of curiosity: Which Bay Are would you have guessed?  


There's definitely pollen as there are a few trees nearby. It's not too bad. It only rains during the winter, so it will get some natural cleaning soon. I will have to see how clean they get afterwards. Should they be treated as glass panels when it comes to cleaning?
What would you consider debris? In my case there's no objects of visible size on them but some kind of pollen or dust is there, albeit not very prominent.
Hurt? The wallet? 😅
If they were dusty, I see a slight improvement.  It might be psychological.
If you really wanted to see.  What you could do is try one panel if you have some that are easily accessible.  Then you could just do a comparison and see if it's worth it.  More than likely, it's not going to make a huge difference and your time isn't worth the pennies you're saving if the panels get a little better production.
Except last year! let's see what we get this year. Not much so far :D
Raining right now lol
Yeah, that's my glib answer.  I think if you get a good rain once in a while, then not much else is needed.  We get the bonus of snow in winter, so that sort of squeegees clean whatever the rain didn't get during the warmer months.
I’m going with Bay of Biscay
South east coast people seem to think of Tampa I would say, even have Tampa Bay Buccaneers and Ray's pro teams. Mid country probably Green Bay (packers anyone?). I'm betting most of west will be thinking California.  And then lots of smaller cities around.  That's just US. Canada is probably thinking Hudson Bay.

My first thought or guess is Tampa Bay as I have some family living there.

https://www.quora.com/Why-do-people-automatically-think-that-The-Bay-Area-refers-to-the-San-Francisco-Bay-Area-when-America-has-many-other-cities-with-a-bay?top_ans=148178792
Old Bay
Leaves, bird dropping.
Got rain right now....I should go clean them now! 😁
I just went up on the roof and gave them a quick scrubbing. I'm good for a year now. 😁
You should've used statistics to your advantage. Which bay is the most populated one?  


or just do a google search in incognito for "Bay Area".  


TLDR; There's no confusion around which area is referred to when we say "Bay Area" :)
The east coast's "Bay area" is Chesapeake Bay
Mine had surprisingly few bombing runs
The bay of Bengal has one of the worlds largest ecosystems so I’ll change to that one.
Bombay?
Yes
Cheddar bay? The birthplace of the greatest biscuits known to mankind?!?
Damn why didn’t that one come to mind.. Now I feel I must go to the home of Chedder Bay and pray to the lobster gods for forgiveness..
I don't think the whole picture is here. Yes, it does look like you were a net consumer of 228 kWh. But it doesn't make sense that the true-up is $9.17. Your year-to-date energy charges are shown as $92.10 and if you've only been paying non-energy charges, your true-up should have included that $92.10.
I think it's misleading because it says year to date, maybe it's literally from January-now. Whereas the picture with all the months is my actual cycle which is oct-oct
At the bottom of their website it says it’s powered by Electrum. They are legit and offer similar services for others. They have a network of installers and will get competitive quotes. Their advisors act as advocates for your project and answer questions on an unbiased basis instead of trying to push a deal. 

Auto OEMs are doing this type collaboration because home electrification is a big barrier for EV adoption in consumer surveys. Makes sense IMO
It just promotes installers. I appreciate that at least I don't have to provide my email and phone before getting an estimate. But it says before solar panels I am paying 36¢/kWh and actually people around my place pay 16¢ or less.
Subaru gonna be pissed!
Every big company is jumping on solar sales. Security, Car, Phone and Telecom companies are all on this train. Long contracts, government money, financing and cheap solar sales = huge margins
Yes they are… I got a quote from them last week and they gave me some solid options.
They partnered with Electrum, who’s a sales org and works with a bunch of different installers.
This was started for home EV charger installs (Honda has sold under 2k EV's) and seems to be now allowing the installers to whore out some other services.
Probably just a partnership/referral service with sunrun or similar
Yamaha sells motorcycles and musical instruments.
Sounds like dedicated solar installers are actually putting in the systems and they’re just connecting you to some pre-vetted companies. Tesla offers the whole solar/battery/EV ecosystem so it makes sense other automakers would want to follow suit.
0 EVs. They don’t launch until 2024.
… and then there’s Hitachi. Nuclear reactors and “massagers”
A disconnect for both is recommended.  Takes the charge voltage off for maintenance etc as well as a disconnect to the batteries.
We have a ballasted system installed on a flat roof between two observatory domes at the summit of Maunakea, in Hawaii. The system is largely exposed, subject to occasional hundred mile per hour winds and snow. Works fine, after we dealt with some initial problems of not using the proper clamps rated for high wind.

I can hear birds running around on our roof (not at the summit of Maunakea), but I've never noticed additional noise I could attribute to the solar panels. That might be because when the wind is high enough I mostly just hear the wind.
Can your roof handle the weight of a ballasted system?  Do you know the dead load rating?  Not the snow load or live load.
Ballasted is usually the recommended option to avoid any leaking issues with penetrations/anchors. A good company will get a structural engineering analysis to ensure wind and snow loads are accounted for and appropriate weight distribution for your house.
Have a flat roof (tongue and groove ceiling). Can hear birds walking on roof and rain is pretty loud. Do not hear solar panels creaking in the wind. They are mounted into some pretty thick beams though.
I have a flat roof (EPDM), but wind calculations (especially influenced by parapet walls) ended up requiring a couple of roof penetrations on my 11.455kWp system, even using a [ballasted system](https://unirac.com/product/ecofoot-2-plus/). I ended up going with the [Powergrip Universal 7](https://www.omgroofing.com/products/solar-mounts/powergrip-universal-7) for the roof penetrations, as it is the only solution that my roofer was happy with.  


I have yet to hear anything from my panels/array; we have had decent amounts of 60+ mph winds but never had any issues. Make sure you have wind deflectors present in your design; otherwise your panels are just a kite waiting to take off...
Enphase batteries can be setup without  backup and be just used for time shifting. I have done it. Its just wired to the combiner if there is room or to the main panel. It will need consumption cts installed. Most installers dont know or dont want you to know this can be done. Its also called grid tied batteries. 


See this doc. Self consumption without iq controller 

Install the Enphase IQ Battery https://enphase.com/download/iq-battery-310-installation-guide
All you need an an AC coupled ESS, that’s it, it’s not complex, and it will have CTs to keep it at zero export, if the ESS can’t keep up with the load/demand the home will start pulling from the grid.  I’m looking at doing similar.  You basically have a standalone AC coupled inverter/charger tied to a 240v breaker just like your solar array.
Many people seem to have missed that you said you are interested in ON GRID only.....twice in your OP actually. This is symptomatic of the conflicting advice you have gotten from the "experts" as well - people need to answer the question asked, or you risk giving wrong information :-)

Anyway, you asked about:

*Enphase battery*

Which is AC coupled, and will work when connected anywhere on your house AC bus. It can be connected to any breaker, or to the combiner.  This is the technical/operational answer, depends on local codes, location of panel/breakers etc of course. But you should understand as a concept that an AC battery just needs to be *somewhere* on your house 240V, as opposed to a DC coupled battery that must be connected to a hybrid inverter.

&#x200B;

*ON grid only*

You don't need a system controller, and you don't need sub panels, critical loads separated, etc. Your house, solar, storage are all on a common AC bus, the max power output, peak lods and so on don't matter to the battery, the only metric here is battery capacity in kWh to save you money. You program peak and off peak rates in the app and whether to charge from grid or not and that determines when the battery charges/discharges.

&#x200B;

*Existing enphase solar*

You have a combiner box already, this is the easiest and most obvious connection point for the battery.

&#x200B;

But, we don't know:

*If you have any contractual restrictions from the utility about charging from the grid*

If so, you can only use excess solar to charge. That's not a tech limitation, it's contractual. This only affects the settings you put on the battery e.g. to charge from the grid or not. Change utilities, and you can change this setting in the app.

&#x200B;

*If you have consumption monitoring*.

This is required, and might add a small cost to the battery install if you don't already have it.
For TOU load shifting, no loads need to be backed up. But be careful capacity sizing. Under NEM 3.0 your system will not be eligible for any comparable net metering, so it’s important to build the storage capacity large enough to support absorption of the PV.
The first one is more correct than the second one. 

The second guy probably installs Tesla equipment. And Tesla Powerwall 2s need a Tesla Gateway to work, the Tesla Gateway to is also the device that allows backup power. So with Tesla, you don't have to have backup power, but you might as well since you're getting all the equipment anyway. 

Enphase (and a bunch of other manufacturers) will allow you to install the battery(+battery inverter), with some monitoring and it will work as you expect it to.
The senerio you wrote about first is correct. I install enphase systems daily.
There are some heavy loads that you might want not on the battery, or are too much for the battery. Besides kWh, batteries also have an amperage and a voltage limit. Not the question that was asked, just giving info.
Agree with the first person.

However the rate shifting idea is no more here on SDGE as the Winter rates kicked in.  Are you sure you can make cake via arbitrage?

I looked at a 5 kWh system and let's discount losses and say I buy low, sell high.  Winter Rate SDGE TOU-DR1 shows only 10.905 cents per kWh difference.  For simplicity I won't get into any tax or other charges.

So if I were to fill my 5 kWh battery full and discharge at the higher rate I'd make just over $199 a year.  The cheapest 5 kWh server rack battery I can find is 1,100 USD so breakeven is just over 5.5 years at the current SDGE TOU-DR1 Winter rate.  Add in some grid tie hybrid inverter and that means even more years to break even.

Is it worth it?
Not an expert but from my research I think the first guy is correct.
My battery is wired to my inverter only, but they are both Solar Edge so your mileage my vary
Typically the battery (with its controller/gateway) behaves as a grid and responds when the real grid goes. It’d be hard in **software** to tell the batteries to just let you have an outage instead of kicking in and providing backup. Most of the software of the storage batteries when paired with a “Tesla Gateway” or “Enphase System Controller” are configured to provide backup - it’s not a common feature set to have them monitor your home and provide battery for ToU but then to refuse to use any battery during an outage.

In fact most systems want to use battery in an outage to run themselves otherwise the storage system itself entirely goes dark and isn’t able to manage its relays and computers (“black starting” Enphase and Tesla batteries I hear is fun and may even require a 12V car battery and jumper cables). I suspect where a controller isn’t installed the batteries monitor the AC and would then just cut out - but when you’re sat on 13.5 / 27 / 40.5 kWh (1, 2 or 3 Powerwalls) of storage per phase.. why wouldn’t you use the power?

The Tesla Gateway does have a physical “non backup” circuit it’s basically a bypass (usually to split and dump non essential loads to prevent overloading which I’ll come onto) you could just dump the whole house on those contacts - nothing house can ever go through the batteries then during an outage - ~~but then I think you’d not be able to make use of ToU then because not sure if during even the grid being healthy the batteries can feed that circuit (not 100% sure)~~ you can then choose by adding or not adding a grid CT clamp whether the Gateway sees this load and tries to match it (see https://www.reddit.com/r/Powerwall/s/pexPfRh1lp) - my installer offered to take the cables that go into my dumb non solar aware EV charger and wire them to the non-backup side so that it’d never rinse the powerwall batteries and would always use grid for example.

The other thing to worry about is overloading the battery - if I ask for 21 kW to run my iron smelting machine or something and the grid goes down then a battery that can only output a certain amount won’t be able to stabilise and will just cut out causing an instant outage in the event of the grid going down… it’d be like taking the house wires and trying to connect them up to a single AA battery - my fridge is just not going to start up. That’s why you’d split the circuits to dump anything heavy on the non-backup connectors on the Tesla Gateway and leave the house circuit just for the things you want on backup.

I have Grid -> Utility’s Meter -> Tesla Gateway + Powerwalls -> Solar + House.. the solar doesn’t know if the grid is or isn’t there because the Powerwalls emulate it. The Gateway electronically pulls the grid breaker inside it when the grid goes (so as not to electrocute utility workers).

If I turn on something in the house like a 10 W light, the gateway sees 10 W being drawn from the grid and it tells the Powerwalls to put 10 W extra onto the wire.. the house consumes it.. when the solar is putting lots of power on the wire then the battery sucks some of it up.. when the batteries are full it flows back into the grid.

I’ve explained it simply but at the end of the day we’re just talking about power cables and energy on a power cable so the end result isn’t terribly complicated.

If you’re going full Enphase then the System Controller is your Tesla Gateway and your Powerwalls are IQ Batteries instead.. there’s not many ways to electrically design these systems too differently.. from the comments below it sounds like you can get the Enphase batteries without a System Controller and they’ll behave just like the microinverters do without batteries and follow the grid and die when the grid dies… you used to be able to do the same with Powerwall (before Backup Gateway became a thing) but I’m not sure that’s possible with Powerwall 2 and above as you configure them using the gateway and the gateway has all the CT clamps and grid metering.

You may ask, why not put the solar before the storage system? You won’t be able to use the solar when the big relay is open.. your solar will cut out when there’s a powercut (inverters and microinverters are taught to cut if they don’t see a grid within their configured parameters) and your house will be physically disconnected (aka islanded) so you won’t be able to make use of the solar for the home either.

Finally, Powerwall is not a true UPS (can’t speak about Enphase but their system probably is not too) - I’ve personally had a 4 second outage while the Powerwalls ramp up in a grid outage, the “U” in UPS is “Uninterruptible” and while it’s certainly battery backup for the hour or so recent outage my grid had - it’s **not** a UPS and you should correct everyone who says it is. Put anything that can’t afford an outage on an actual UPS and just wait the 4 seconds or so in an outage for your room lights and TV etc to come back on. Near instant but not actually instant.
With the addition of a smart panel, like the SPAN, even a small battery could be useful in an outage because you can program it to shed load based on how much power you have available.  If you are going to go to the expense of adding a battery you should get some coverage out of it.
Bro, you gotta calculate the breakeven after accounting for round trip efficiencies.

Your EVA is running out in a few years, but until then battery maybe lucrative. After that it’s EV2a unless you have a separate meter for EVB. 

Right now it takes a long time for battery to break even
I am not an installer, but am a fairly knowledgeable Enphase customer. They are both right from a certain point of view. Specifically, from a TOU load shifting perspective, the first answer is correct - the battery can be connected anywhere. From a backup perspective, you need the critical loads panel and to move the heavy loads off the battery so as not to exceed the batteries capabilities. 

While I know you’re not interested in backup, I think the real answer is that it depends on your local jurisdiction, utility, and your installer. Specifically, I was informed that we have to design for the worst case scenario. While I wanted to hook up all my heavy loads and manually decide whether to run my oven, HVAC, or charge my car, I was told that from a permitting perspective, it’s assumed that they’ll all run simultaneously, and thus needed to respect the max loads of the battery. 

I don’t know if there’s a way to setup the battery such that backup is not even possible. 

Hope this helps!
Watch out on this, the dirty little secret is Tesla and Enphase bet their technology on AC.  While string solar is DC bus.   When it matters, string bus DC to DC **is far more efficient** than "DC-AC and AC-DC" conversion for batteries.   Look for Hybrid Inverters that combine all off-grid, battery and inversion electronics in one unit.
Might depend on the system, components, and how the install is done. I have an Enphase system with a single 10T battery; I don’t have load controllers. My install is done with a sub-panel with more circuits than I would ever use. I can have it set to only power my house in an outage or can pull power from the battery at night. My single battery is not powerful enough to power the whole house after hours. So my install is done like your option #2.

Per my agreement with my power company, I cannot use the grid to power my battery - the recharge needs to come from the roof.

Regardless of what install you opt for, your home will be powered at least for a time, in an outage. 

Is the first guy including a new panel such as the Span Smart Panel?
The intersection between “people who want to pay for batteries” and “people who are not interested in some level of backup” is likely fairly small to nonexistent.
Thank you.
I sort of do this.  Except my battery isn't fixed inside the house.  Highly portable.

Details below, TLDR at the end.

I spend my winters in Arizona and my power company is APS.  I have an EV with a 77kWh battery (roughly 6 Tesla power walls worth of power).  I charge it at "Ultra Off Peak" time 3.1 cents/kWh with (10 - 3pm M-F in winter).   $2.38 for a full tank gets me 385 miles of range.  A small North American sedan would use 18 gallons of gas @$3.15/gal = $56.70 and a larger SUV would cost $75 or more.  I pocket about $220 a month in gas savings.  I use that cash to buy electricity from the grid at night and power my house for free.  Not to mention I get to drive a really fun car.

TLDR: I have an EV with a really big battery.
Considering how much power is generated during the day and how little you use at night... ya that's a big consideration.
Thank you.
Thank you
>There are some heavy loads....

Correct, but not applicable - OP doesn't want off grid capability.
your friends at SDGE have proposed 10a-2p to be super off peak year around as of Jan 2024 which is about 25 cents kwh. You could fill your batteries from solar and sell at winter peak which is around 45 cents until summer rates hit then sell that stored power back at 80 cents.
You think so?
I should also clarify that by “setup” I don’t just mean a software setting that the homeowner can change.
How much more efficient?
I'd contend that this could be a niche market for CA customers with undersized solar on NEM 2.0 contracts. It's a good setup for rate arbitrage.
While I’d like backup capabilities, it’s not worth the expense to me.  We rarely have unplanned outages and I’d need to replace my all-in-one panel and add an IQ Controller.  For the one or two times a year we might have a brief outage, I’d rather put the money it’d take to get that capability and get an additional battery.
Depends where you are - Enphase's first battery release was only capable of operating on grid, and suited the market it was introduced to first (Australia) well.
They can also cause issues with functionality on grid tied batteries
**Which plan has this 25 cents kWh?**  Right now the TOU-DR and TOU-DR1 super off peak is over 52 cents per kWh.

Now the summer rates were great for arbitrage but your friends at SDGE fixed it.
I can tell you how our Powerwall is setup.  Whenever it was installed they added an essential load panel which is most lower power breakers in the house.  The big items like A/C, stove, dryer, are still on the main panel.

The Powerwall is connected to the essential load panel but is able to feed power back to those larger loads.
Btw today we primarily use the PW for TOU load shifting
One last post based on the installation manual that somebody else posted: it can be installed for load shifting only and the first answer is correct. 

That being said, if the cost is relatively comparable, you might as well install for backup as well.
I guess 3-4% is "**far more efficient"** :-). Would be under $100 per year difference for a typical 20kWh battery install on my electricity rates.

As far as "dirty little secret" - [Enphase are not doing well at keeping it a secret](https://enphase.com/blog/ac-coupled-vs-dc-coupled-batteries-which-better) by publishing a discussion on the pros and cons:

>But first, let’s explore some of the downsides of AC-coupled storage.
Maybe, but specifically for PG&E who are famous for rolling blackouts and cutting power for wildfire safety reasons, I’d argue the extra $1500-$2000 for an IQ Controller would be well spent.
Why would you need to replace your all in one?
You simply can not overload an on grid battery in the same way as you can off grid, because the utility takes up any slack.   A 1MW load on a 1kW capable battery will simply pull 1kW from the battery and 999kW from the grid.

If you have seen some sort of overloading issue with heavy loads and batteries when on grid, then you have seen a wiring problem.
EV-TOU2

I was off by a few cents. It's about 29 cents for super off peak.

TOU-DR and TOU-DR1 also have about a 12 cent baseline credit up to 130% which you also have to factor in to offset some of that super off peak usage.
3% - 4% each way.   For example Solar Panel DC -> AC micro-inversion then AC > DC 3% - 4% in Battery Storage then 3% - 4% back to DC > AC Usage.   Of course that also must factor in DC Battery loss via Heat and Charging but all systems have that loss.  I think some of the more expressive gear have better loss rates these days, but every brand is different.
>I’d argue the extra $1500-$2000 for an IQ Controller would be well spent.

When you have to rewire the feed into your main panel or set up a critical loads panel, it's way more than $2,000.
Solid buss bars from the meter to the breakers.  No approved way to put the controller between the meter and the main.
A/c without a sure start will shut down a Tesla battery every time because of the start up amperage of the a/c unit.
I don't see the usual monthly, basic service fee of $16 on EV-TOU2 now.  I recall there was such a fee.

Looks like a winner to me.
The Round Trip Efficiency is what you want to compare.

*"Energy storage systems function by taking in electricity, storing it, and subsequently returning it to the grid. The round trip efficiency (RTE), also known as AC/AC efficiency, refers to the ratio between the energy supplied to the storage system (measured in MWh) and the energy retrieved from it (also measured in MWh). This efficiency is expressed as a percentage (%)."*

[Manufacturer spec for Enphase](https://enphase.com/download/iq-battery-5p-data-sheet) is 90% RTE

[Manufacturer spec for solaredge](https://www.solaredge.com/en/products/residential/storage-and-backup/solaredge-home-battery-400v) is 94.5% RTE

**4.5% difference, total.**
You could do a breaker in the main panel to feed the IQ controller, then move your critical loads (fridge, etc) to a sub-panel fed from the controller.

That's what I did.
All in ones are always a pain for full home backup, line side taps, CTs, etc. You could still pull it off by going with a 200 amp load center or partial backup. But I feel your pain. The rest of the country has it easy with their meter to load center setups.
Added some emphasis formatting to my previous in case you missed it:

&#x200B;

>If you have seen some sort of overloading issue with heavy loads and batteries **when on grid,** then you have seen a wiring problem.

The physics of parallel connected voltage sources make it impossible to draw enough current from one of them to droop the voltage enough to shut it down, because the other source(s) will supply the load.

You are either talking about an off grid situation, which is usually where soft starters are discussed, or you have observed a wiring problem.

If you are still not wrapping your head around it, let me ask - what was the reason for the shutdown - was it the battery hitting a maximum output and starting to droop voltage?
Because there is a finite amount of amperage and voltage the system can tolerate. When they system sees items that are outside its normal operating conditions, they system will shut down to protect itself. If the entire system is not working, there’s no control sent to offload power to the grid. 

Here is the basic [spec sheet](https://www.tesla.com/sites/default/files/pdfs/powerwall/Powerwall%202_AC_Datasheet_en_northamerica.pdf) showing those amounts.
All the limits are only important for load operation OFF grid. When ON grid they just tell you where you will start spending money pulling from the grid. Nothing shuts down, the battery just supplies up to it's limit, then any further needs are supplied by the grid.

Take your HVAC example - can the HVAC start up without a soft starter when on grid?  Of course, happens millions of times per day across the country.  So, add a parallel connected Tesla, Enphase etc battery.  Can the HVAC still start up? Of course - form the HVAC point of view, nothing changed. It can still pull any amount of Curren it needs, it might just be that out of say 100A, the first 20A is coming from a battery, with the grid supplying the remaining.

Again, off grid - different story and the data sheet limits become critical. But ON grid, those limits are just informational.

The physics of parallel connected voltage sources make it impossible to draw enough current from one of them to droop the bus voltage enough to shut it down, because the other source(s) will supply the load.
>Because there is a finite amount of amperage and voltage the system can tolerate. When they system sees items that are outside its normal operating conditions, they system will shut down to protect itself.

Haven't read every single word of the thread but if the discussion point is about on grid batteries, then there's no way for an AC battery whether Tesla or anyone else to be overloaded and shut down - the grid just takes up the slack. It's basic electrical theory at work.
100% not true, but you do you
Thanks for the permission :-)

I'll point out that you have made a statement with no backing - "100% not true".

If you want to explain why you think an AC battery when ON grid can possibly be overloaded, I'm happy to try and help you understand. If you want to give up, that's fine too, but the opportunity to learn is being offered.

This is the key point - tell me how this is not true:

>The physics of parallel connected voltage sources make it impossible to draw enough current from one of them to droop the bus voltage enough to shut it down, because the other source(s) will supply the load.

The "other source" in this case is the grid....
Most companies only have access to 2 - 3 panels that the consultants can quote from. Different panels may be different cost per watt with high wattage panels like 420+ often having a premium. Lastly, yes, some consultants may not be using all the options open to them for best benefit possibly.
Your premise is wrong, it’s not like the inverters stay the same while the panels get bigger. The inverters will also need to be upsized, and each of them will be more expensive, cancelling out the effect from there being fewer of them.

There are legitimate reasons for using smaller panels, like if they fit better on a particular roof shape than bigger panels.
As others have pointed out, larger solar panels might not always be the most efficient choice. It's possible that installing a greater number of smaller panels could result in a more extensive system, leading to increased savings. Additionally, it's important to consider that a panel's STC rating, which represents its maximum output, only applies under ideal conditions that seldom occur in reality. Thus, the higher rating of larger panels might not offer significant advantages over smaller ones. Moreover, smaller panels might be better suited for the selected inverter, optimizing the system's overall performance. The range of panel options varies among companies; some may offer a limited selection, while others provide a broad array from multiple manufacturers.
>Why do some companies offer smaller panels when estimating microinverter systems, if bigger ones can fit on my roof and provide direct cost savings as fewer inverters will be used?

You have a flawed assumption - the second part above is not necessary true.  They might be getting a bulk deal on smaller panels and inverters, or smaller might give more arrangement flexibility, or any number of similar reasons. What matters to most people is the total $/W.

Consider also that less, but larger, panels and inverters means if one goes out, a larger proportion of your total is affected.
Big panels (like 550 watt) take away design flexibility on residential roofs. Their efficiency is usually less than the “residential” panels and there are not microinverters that work with them.

I can usually fit more watts on a residential roof using 400-425 watt 22% efficient panels than I can using 550 watt 20-21% panels (obviously it partly depends on obstructions and roof size).

 Also if your business does microinverters (mine does) there aren’t a lot of options for the larger wattage panels. Enphase has one large panel micro and it is for three-phase electrical sites. But they have a least 4 for “residential” panels (iq8 +, A, M, H).
Use string inverters and use large panels (I have 37 460W and 30 550W) using a Sol-Ark 15K for the DC PV and two Growatt MIN 10K inverters for the 460W.  Micro-Inverters (MI) are geared for smaller panels.  I like string inverters a LOT more than MI.
You can choose to opt for APS DS3 inverters for larger panels. I have 600w panels paired with DS3 inverters (440w per channel) with a DC/AC ratio of 1.39. This is to balance out the potential loss of production from our hot climate so during the hottest times of the day I can still max out the inverters. Larger DC/AC ratios also have the advantage of providing more to the inverters when solar intensity is lower. However, this needs to be countered with the added cost of larger panels, the foot print of those panels against your available roof space and the added weight of those panels. Most companies choose to offer what they have in stock because they bought those panels in bulk to achieve economies of scale and ordering in just one or two pallets for your install may cost higher than normal they cannot achieve economies of scale with the volume or shipping. For my case, I calculated the potential loss and worked out my optimal design for my own scenario and got the installer to bring in the panel sizes I wanted bearing all the extra costs myself. For the installer, you have to put yourself in their shoes. They also need to clear their stocks.

Its also much easier to install panels that weigh 25kg than those that weigh 32kg. A single person can carry up a 400-450w panel but 600w panels require at least 2 people adding to your cost.
Why? I see the price is almost the same for APSystems vs Fronius
This echos a lot of my thoughts on the disadvantages micro-inverters compared to string inverters. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4K_q7hGFLuo

Not to mention, do you want to get up on your roof in the middle of winter to replace a MI?
I concur! I am a much bigger fan of modular systems from different manufacturers. I also own a Sol-Ark and love it. So many features and the batteries you pair with it are much cheaper. Yes, you pay more for the Sol-Ark but you save more on the batteries
I don't think first company using "44w" panels, definitely fix that number for people to get you better answers.
[deleted]
Thanks for that.
420w x 17 = 7.14kw for a cash price that would be in ballpark of $22k in most areas.  
Definitely get the cash price quote, but know you are paying massive fees/points to buy the rate down to 3.99%
Solar company owner with connections to multiple installers and finance companies.

Before deciding on a purchase, make sure to understand how the tax credit applies to you. Do you have enough tax liability to see the benefits of deductions. If you don’t have any tax liability after all your other deductions, the tax credit simply goes to waste and you’re not saving with that. It’s not refundable. 

Ex. Tax credit of $11,000 can be applied over 5 years. 

Tax liability of $3k in year 1 can be completely deducted, leaving 8k that can be applied to future tax years. If the remaining eligible tax credit is not used in the next 4 years, it expires.

If you have the tax appetite, the tax savings can be applied to lower your net system cost or maybe even a higher interest debt like credit card, car loan, etc. 



As far as equipment, silfab is solid. The manufacturer warranty alone will pull you through to make economical sense long term.
Just keep in mind the APR is probably more like 15%, or more.  About 25% of installation cost is prepaid interest on these deals so of course they are thrilled if you pay it off early.
Get a second quote. Ion subs out their installs. So Jim bobs Solar express or whatever does your install and then goes out of business in two years. Ion wasn’t the installer so they won’t honor the installation warranty. Good luck with the manufacturers warranty. Find a company that does everything in-house. Check out Purelight Power. Oregon company.
Let's not forget that the IQ8PLUS is only capable of 290w production.  It's a crazy bottleneck
Interesting, ion advertised the entire process to me as being in-house. Any chance that’s been a recent change or do they have a way of hiding that in legal language to the point where they can tell me they were the installers when they weren’t?
When the panels will make more than that about 9% of the time, that bottleneck means little. If instead you pair them with a 440w panel in unshaded south facing roof then that would be a bigger bottleneck.
No matter what get at least 3 quotes. I see their installs everyday.
The DG distribution rebates is ComEd and Ameren way of getting you to forgo net metering. There is a reason they are offering money up front and it’s not to help the consumer out.
[deleted]
I got net metering through Ameren but no rebates. il shines, and federal tax. We don’t make enough a year to even utilize the federal tax credit, (2 kid credits completely cover our taxes for the year, so the 30% federal means nothing to us, and we found that out the hard way because we thought the child credit was refundable but we were wrong)

Il shines takes a long time, but that’s where we see the only rebate type of compensation on our system.
What is this link out to a poor lead gen site..
At least get incentive information correct

Old…


10. Connecticut
Incentive Highlight: Connecticut’s Residential Solar Investment Program (RSIP) not only offers upfront incentives but also performance-based incentives (PBIs)
My system was installed in April. I got the email last week my Shines was approved and that I should have the check by next week. Not too long of a wait all things considered.
I just got the approval for shines this week and my check would take up to 45 days, installed in February and PTO in June. I was told it can take a year and I’m looking at that year mark right now
the solar loan financial landscape has no intent to show lower risk and thus cheaper rates.
You're 100% correct. The major coal companies that fueled the world for the last 100 years are scared of the change. Take the politics out of it and only then will most people see what's possible with solar. It's definitely the fuel of the very near future.
We financed through sunnova. We were told however they are setup it won’t show on our credit since it’s a utility. We never had a credit check hit our record nor has the loan showed up yet and it would have by now.
Could care less about the rates. The risk component they absolutely should want to. 

Think of the number of people, particularly investors, who would purchase solar if it weren’t eating into debt to income. There isn’t actually the risk since it’s a bill replacement. It’s not actually additional debt it’s shifting the utility bill from electric to solar.
PPA allows you to skip DTI, but no tax credit for the HO
Most PPA companies actually roll the ITC into the cost reducing the EPC ppw by 30%.
Do some research on this company and see if they are legit.  If you found them off Energysage, I would be a bit weary TBH since it's a lead generation site.  I never recommend using that site when people come on this sub to ask.  Just search on here and you'll see many threads about ES and those companies.  That said, I've never heard this company come up and ES in the same sentence, so they might be ok?

Your pricing is almost too good to be true, so it's making me suspicious, especially for CA.  $2.20/watt is something you'd see in like TX or a lower standard of living area.  So just tread carefully and vet this company before you go with them.  Them seem to have good reviews on Yelp and Google, so that's a good sign.  Your equipment is fine too.  Do you know which IQ8 they are giving you?  If it's an IQ8+, you'll probably want something bigger like the IQ8M or a bit bigger for a better DC/AC ratio.

And yes, you definitely want a new roof too, assuming it's composite shingle you've got up there now.  Definitely time and then putting solar right after will work great for you.

Are you on LADWP?  If you're on SCE or a CPUC utility, you're going to want batteries too.  NEM 3.0 sucks for solar only now.
That system will never produce 13K kWh/ yr.
a 8kw system completely installed for $18,000 sounds like a great deal.
Check next door in your area for real reviews about the company. Also, I have a similar setup and all quotes used IQ8A inverters (one quote used IQ8+). Might want to ask about that—price is negligible.
I would also worry about their calculations on the net metering and ask them if the quote takes into account the new NEM3 policies going into effect (Including those just passed down this month.)

https://solarrights.org/faqnem3/

https://calmatters.org/environment/2023/11/california-solar-payment/
I had Pacific Sky Solar do my install March 2023 before the NEM 2.0 deadline.  It was a mad rush until the end but they pulled it off.  I paid closer to $2.94/w so your price is an amazing deal if final.  

I went with the REC panels instead but the QCells are good as well.  Just clarify which model IQ8 microinverters they're using.  Recommend at least IQ8M.  Also, ask for consumption monitoring if you're interested.
Been in solar for 16 years (commercial only). With that said I know the residential game all too well and can give an unbiased opinion. This quote is bottom of the barrel. Either the installer is going out of business or they will be soon after they do a few of these deals. Grab it if you can, but get ready for change order city. Don’t be surprised when they can’t finish the job.
As a Ca solar company owner that price is not final, I can guarantee it… somethings fishy
Price is too low. That company installed solar panels for my neighbor in Northridge, CA and they put them under a tall tree that caused shading. I raised the concern with the neighbor and he called the company. They said it was okay because it was solaredge… beware of that company.
Thanks. All great points. I am not with LADWP. I am now with Pasadena Water & Power, which, as I understand it, still has NEM 2.0 rates for energy generated by the user.
Thanks for the warning on energysage. I looked up a post or two of the kind you're mentioning. My own experience is that energysage generates a lot of quotes quickly. So it's useful for the homeowner on that score at least. Of course some may be pricing very low just to get the business, then cut corners here and there to save money. Not much one can do other than read up, do the due diligence, and try to feel out the contractors on how they handle things... I get the impression that the economy is slowing down fast (thanks to higher interest rates) and that is affecting real estate in particular, and thus contractors are feeling a pinch. Might explain the low pricing from this one company -- which I misnamed in the text of my post, of course, as you can see on the screenshot of the quote I posted. The actual name is Pacific Sky Solar.
Sorry, I'm really not up to speed on this stuff. Why wouldn't it produce that much? Thanks for commenting.
$2.25/w not used to seeing that on a sub 10kw system, let alone on a 25kw system on here
Ha!  I actually ignored your Pacific Sun name in the body cause you had the quote up, so I searched the right company and verified they were in Socal.

All the things you mentioned about ES is exactly why I don't recommend them.  I'm also not a fan of companies using subs to do the install, which can happen a lot with ES companies.  It just opens up another liability line for the 2 companies to blame each other, with you being stuck in the middle with no resolution.  A lot of them do that, suck you in with these stupid low quotes and then find ways to get it back.

And yes, it's probably why it's a popular site because it's convenient for somebody to push a button and have all these quotes come to you, instead of working for it and vetting out actual good companies.  Anybody can pay for lead generation.

Anyway, if you're able to actually talk to actual customers of this company and see how it went, maybe it's worth it.  And yes, possible they are giving you a low quote because they are desperate for business now that they've maybe finished all their deadline 2.0 installs from CPUC customers.  You're lucky you don't have to deal with that and you've got more time!  Great time to get solar for you and get that 1:1 net metering!
Just lurking here but I work in the utility space which has higher efficiency, but here back of the envelope:

(13304kWh)/(8.1kW * 8760h) = 18.7% load factor

That's insanely high. In Spain for a largel system maybe 15% in a good location. 

Really not my expertise, but I'd do 10%. So 8.1 * 8760 * 10% = 7095kWh
I gotta be frank.  I don’t trust any company based in Miami.  Seen way too much fraud and general fuckery from companies based there.  Broward or palm beach 👌🏻.  dade county is a no from me
Avoid bad contractors by **[joining forces with Solar United Neighbors - it's free!](https://www.solarunitedneighbors.org/florida/)**
Unfortunately this is true. Too many get rich quick kids.
For what you are looking to do, this system will not work as a whole home backup. 7.6kW is only 31.66 amp draw rate from the inverter. This would mean you would black out the inverter with some basic loads plus high inrush current draw loads like fridges, furnaces etc.
No
Not terrible but not great. Pretty awful design but when they work, they work decent enough. Battery is okay for partial home backup or selfuse, but they can fuck up so quick. Plus, if your inverter messes up you lose power to all your back up loads unless you switch them back to your MSP from the load panel manually. Not good. If you can get a direct line with one of the reps they can help out with a lot of the technical stuff. As for troubleshooting there’s pretty much no viable information about them anywhere. I’m pretty certain they’ve stopped marketing them tbh. we actually just installed the new gen QCells it’s definitely a step up and they’ve fixed a lot of the design flaws, not too sure how good it is yet
Look into an EG4 18kpv or using 2 EG4 6000XP for your AIO/s.  


EG4 also has some nice wall mount batteries as well that are comparable to the tesla power wall, but for like a 3rd of the price.
Looks like rebadged Solax
No. I installed one of these a couple of years ago. It came with missing parts and absolutely zero tech support to fix the issue. They make good panels, but I would stay far, far away from their inverters and batteries.
I would recommend against the qcell batteries, I installed a set up about 2 years ago, it had so many issues that we just removed it and put in a completely different battery set up. It was so bad that I felt like I knew more than the technical support people after just reading the manual. The whole thing is a hodgepodged set up of random parts that they threw a “q cell” label on. Love their panels, won’t touch their inverters/batteries
2 inverters of the same would work? Or lets separate the 2, are the batteries alone any good? And a bigger inverter or a combination of multiple inverters?
Thanks for the imput. I won't be getting them.
All I have to go by are online reviews and youtube. EG4 is probably my 1st choice just by what I've seen. If I combine 2 Q cell inverters I'll have close to the same KW as sol ark and eg4. But if this system is no good then thats a scratch. I was also looking into 3 eg4 6000 inverters, it runs cheaper than the 18kpv and is the same output. As well as 2 14.3kwh batteries 13k for all 3 items, not bad. But again, this Q cell system is cheaper which is why I posted it. But I can't find any reviews by homeowners. Im just hoping I can get a few of you guys that have systems already installed and can use your product experience to help make my desicion. Thanks for your comments
Sol-Ark 15k was the "inspiration" behind the Luxpower Chinese r+d firm working with EG4 to deliver that pale imitation clone. The Sol-Ark 15k is the most powerful single unit hybrid inverter on the market (15kW AC with solar), from a much stronger company than signature solar, for just a few hundred dollars more.

Basically it is two of the qcell inverters mentioned in a single unit.
That's exactly what it is. I have one.
Well, I guess thats a no for this and probably explains the price today. Thank you. I might just go eg4 inverters and batteries.
The Sol-Ark 15k is like $7k, vs 18kpv which is $5.2k and 2 6000XP which is about $3.2k... not a few hundred more. Also the Luxpower stuff that EG4 sales has a bunch of breakers and cutoffs already built in that saves another few hundred bucks when installing.

I'll agree the Sol-Ark is a more premium unit with better support, but you're paying for it.
3.2k lol... No.

$2.8k maybe if you arent an installer and you are paying retail MSRP. Then the 30% tax credit. Then the 25% more daytime AC power. Then the much larger mppts enabling cheap modules for the bargain hunters. 

EG4 ripped off solark using a Chinese company (Luxpower) that isn't even the OEM (as Deye is to Sol-Ark). All that "breakers and cutoffs etc" comes straight from the Sol-Ark design. You didn't see that stuff on inverters before Sol-Ark, except for like the victron easysolar or outback skybox. 

Something damn fishy about a distributor pretending to be a manufacturer selling inverters at dirt cheap prices lower than what much larger and more professional manufacturers do. EG4 may be the cheapest option for a DIYer not intending the site to be permanent, but I'd be very hesitant to recommend to a regular homeowner. Also got to account for the even worse inverters EG4 has pushed to market in the past...
>Something damn fishy about a distributor pretending to be a manufacturer selling inverters at dirt cheap prices lower than what much larger and more professional manufacturers do.

I'd agree if they were just reselling, but if you watch the tear down videos on EG4 products they tend to do some customization that fixes issues found in the initial products -- which leads me to believe that they're not just rebranding but instead contracting with the Chinese factories and having custom units built off already existing designs that they license.

&#x200B;

>Also got to account for the even worse inverters EG4 has pushed to market in the past...

I agree there, the 3500 specifically where absolute shit
> contracting with the Chinese factories and having custom units built off already existing designs that they license.

Not in the case of the case of luxpower, which basically exists to rip off the IP of other manufacturers innovation to recreate out of cheaper components in a random assortment of factories even more obscure/smaller than traditional OEMs.  Luxpower, for example, doesn't show up on a google maps search whereas almost any real OEM does.   
  
EG4 and Luxpower just strike me as the new kid on the block trying to convince you they are both cheaper and better.  That simply isn't the case 9 times out of 10, and it makes no sense in EG4's case. I think its a fine budget choice for DIY, I would hesitate about leaving installed on a home when you move or install professionally. Basically taking the market from AIMs.
That's because they are smart. 

Vertically mounted PV produces peak power when typical roof mounted PV is producing the least. In the winter months when the sun is low in the sky. 

Plus PV panels outside of the US are dead cheap
This plus PV roofs  covering entire highway rest-areas are currently being rolled-out over entire Switzerland. A public tender has been realized until June this year and have been concessions assigned to the various applicants - typically utility companies.
In America it would take 2 days for someone to airborne their car and destroy each wall.
Efficiency seems pretty low might make sense if all the roofs were full but at least its not on the roadway.
Some douchebags will put graffiti on them.
It's free real estate. Single biggest advantage of solar is that existing  surfaces can be used.
They would get stolen real quick here.
I wonder did this Canton factor in the massive amount of soiling from road dirt and dust in there annual production estimates?
I'm all for being green and throwing panels in almost any place but this just looks odd coming from what looks like a beautiful area.
All paid for under Biden’s Inflation reduction act. But but it’s in Switzerland?
Not cheap, but not out of line. There should be some learning curve cost reductions on repeat projects. I expect winter electricity to become more valuable.

They mention the corrosion resistance issues - this is mainly due to the salt they use on roads in winter.

Cleaning should not be that hard, give it a (gentle) spray with a power washer once in a while.

About storage, Switzerland has a lot of pumped hydroelectric plants. If loads can be shifted to the daytime (e.g. mandate more heat storage on heat pump installations), there will be enough power at night.
Switzerland? Cheap? We wish! Especially PV, since it requires a fair amount of labor to mount etc

Edit: just looked up the figures, USD 960k for 324 kWp. How does this compare to other industrial projects of this size?
You pull logic out of your ass.
Every country has their share of shitty drivers.
It's Switzerland not America
Do they get stolen from roofs?
Meh, wall gonna be there anyway.
A concrete retaining wall is beautiful!
I guess it’s beautiful that it’s producing clean energy instead of a slab of concrete. There has to be a wall there anyways might as make it generate clean energy.
What exactly does this have to do with Biden?
It's gonna be okay:-)
I just put 133kw on a roof in North Carolina with a 420kWh battery for about $500,000
I was referring to the PV panel itself, not necessarily the full installation. But damn almost $1 mill seems crazy expensive
They have graffiti in Switzerland. You can see it from the train.
Switzerland has some great graffiti in its cities.

The bigger factor is that it’s not in a city than that it’s not in the USA.
Switzerland is like the Texas of Europe.
How big was that roof? That's an impressive array.
Inpressive! How much would it have been without the battery?
Panels are cheap due to the strong Swiss franc but anything involving labor is at least 2x what you see elsewhere
Dont ever say something as stupid again
It’s an engineering building at a large public university.  Was built 6 years ago for 168 million.  It’s 5 stories and I am guessing but each floor is prolly 120,000 sqft
The only set up I have seen like that in person was on the roof of an IKEA store in Houston. Crazy to see so many solar panels in one place.

Do you do residential installs as well or just these larger projects?
I work for the college as an Electrical Engineer and handle all sorts of projects around campus.  I didn’t do the physical install, I did the engineering work.
Ah. Are batteries far cheaper at a large-scale? They still seem really expensive at the consumer level. I have solar, but don't have a home battery.
Yes, we bought a standalone self cooled mini container for like 70 or 80k?  420kWh, 250kWh max discharge?  I don’t handle purchasing or bids so I am guessing. https://www.ecodirect.com/Lithion-Battery-GridBox-10GB-430kWh-p/homegrid-10gb-10-0250-0430.htm
Great deal if that price is true. Home backup batteries seem to be closer to $500 per kWh. I assume they will decrease in price over time.

If I ever become obscenely wealthy and buy a giant house, I will install one of those Grid Boxes. :) 

Has the solar/battery system been working well so far?
You are incorrect, the state is not implementing TOU rates. It’s up to each utility if they offer TOU, not the state.  PSE implemented a trial program that lasts the next two years.  It’s already fully subscribed, and not offered to net-metering customers.  SCL is starting a trial TOU program, also not available to net-metering customers. Battery-only will work if you go that way, if in SCL.

If you are in a utility other than those two, there might be a TOU you can subscribe to and net-meter, but I haven’t heard of it.  That said, my company only works in western WA.
Sure.
If you don’t plan to be in your house long term it doesn’t always make sense (from a $$$ standpoint) since the break even point is usually 12-14 years. However, if you do plan to be in the house long term and have a good site that gets a lot of sun you’ll probably see long term ROI over 100%.  A lot of folks in Wa go solar for a mix of doing something positive and the savings. I feel like it’s rarely just about the $ here.
Get a sol ark 12 and pair it with a DC battery and you are set
If you get a solid company to install, it definitely makes sense. Tacoma is one of our largest markets. Batteries are definitely not needed. And it's smarter to not have them. 

Payback works this way.

Loan - 
Same or cheaper monthly payments, then current rates, but fixed inflation proof payments. So as utility bills go up, the solar payment stays the same. You save more every month the further you go out. Many people forget to add inflation into the payback numbers. Some utilities only have a 2% historical average. But many utilities have gone up 15-25% in just 1 year. You never know what utilities will do in 5 years. 

Cash-
Cheaper overall cost, but it takes a large up-front investment. And more expensive short-term

Equity-
How much equity do you get back from your utility? And when do you plan to stop paying your electric bill? Solar adds equity if you own the system. Some say 4%, 6k per kw system size, $20 for every $1 saved per year. 

If your payment is exactly the same as your utility, you still get the equity side of things if you sell later on down the road. 

Many companies, such as mine, offer referral bonuses as well. Paying you to refer other people. Up to $1,500 for each one.
I'd be very surprised if the cost works in your favour for charging a battery from the grid unless the on peak vs off peak is **substantial**. You'd likely be better off putting at least a few panels up solely to charge the battery. Given you'll probably need most of a solar set up to run battery only, adding a small amount of panels probably won't significantly increase the cost.

I know it's been done before, but I can't help on the tech, although I think most hybrid inverters would be able to support this use case. For e.g. I have a Sungrow SH10RT and I can set schedules for force charging/discharging.

You may need to select the tech based on your expected loads (i.e. ensure the battery and inverter is capable of your normal kw usage) otherwise you will still end up pulling from the grid to cover the excess.

For what it's worth in Australia we have an energy retailer called Amber that sells us power at wholesale. It has some tech to control your solar/battery and charge it when the wholesale buy price is very low (sometimes it's negative, i.e. they pay you to charge the battery). In this case it makes sense, as you can also set it to sell the power from the battery when the export tariff peaks if you aren't going to use it yourself. I.E. you could buy 10kwh at 1c/kwh, then sell it back during peak hour at 60c/kwh. I think this would also support a panel free system, and at the wholesale prices I've seen it could actually work really well. The point of that is to say "it's something people do" and plan for, so you're not insane.

Buying at 20c to avoid using power at 40c would likely take a long time to get anywhere near justifying the cost of a battery.

Anyway, there's my 2c. As I said, personally if my entire goal was to avoid using on peak power I would:

- Battery
- Inverter
- "Enough" panels

Configure it all to prioritise charging the battery. When battery is full feed the house. The only caveat would be on poor solar days you may want to still charge from the grid which would require an inverter that supports that functionality and some manual intervention (or coding smarts).
Look into residential micro CHP and a battery system if you have gas. Charge your battery and heat your home at below grid prices.
After installation expenses, batteries are usually THE most expensive part of a solar power system.  As others have pointed out the PowerWall system and probably similar ones from Enphase or Generac can do the load shifting you're looking for.  The issue I have with those systems is you're pretty much locked to that one manufacturer if at some future date you or someone down the line wants to add solar panels to the system.
I think you need to get better quotes in regards to solar, maybe look at some DIY options to lower cost, the panels are the cheap part compared to the batteries and inverters (which you would need in a battery only system). but yes there are battery backup use shifting options that don't require solar, pretty much all the whole home battery/inverter setups have time shifting capability, but once your their it's only like 5 grand more for solar panels.
Awesome! What are some products that do this?
Thank you! Given the solar industry connection to slavery through mining and the lack of ability to recycle the panels, I don't think there's much good here. But was hoping for a decent ROI.
Thank you so much! I love this idea and I'm going to look into it more.
Our home does have natural gas. I'll take a look. Thanks!
All good points. Looking like enough panels to charge the battery to power peak-time usage may be the way to go. Going to check into that. Thanks!
Thanks! The quote I got was panel only. Pretty crazy to me.
The Tesla powerwall or any similar system. The math is easy. How much is your off peak energy costs, how much and how long are you on peak energy costs. Price a battery backup that can cover those energy needs and size it about 125 to 150 percent of that. See how much you would save daily by shifting those energy costs and multiply by 365.. then calculate how many years it would take to pay off the battery
Recycling has been brought up in our Wa industry group WASEIA so it’s defo an important piece of the puzzle that’s on members minds. Solar is still quite a young industry with some growing pains to work through!
The US have embargoes in place. Most of the modules used in the US residential scene are REC or QCELLS, both of which have no known ties to slavery.
True but China evades them by laundering their materials through non-embargoed nations. They have 80% market share of solar production globally, so there's really no way to avoid ties to China when buying solar.

And, to be clear, I'm not on my high horse here. I drive a Tesla, which couldn't be more connected to China. But it's the safest car ever made by a long shot and I want my family to be safe.

Solar, however, at least in WA, doesn't offer any advantages I value. I still have to be connected to the grid, so my power goes out in an emergency. It has a 20+ year payback period, excluding an increase in equity in my home, which is incredibly squishy. And, if I want to reduce my carbon footprint through solar, I have to employ child slaves and generate a ton of carbon shipping these things all over the world to get them.
I mean, is it a 20 year payback? I’m not in Washington, but energysage gives pretty conflicting information…

https://www.energysage.com/local-data/solar-rebates-incentives/wa/
>so there's really no way to avoid ties to China when buying solar.

and virtually all electronics see something coming from china, so if you care that much get rid of all your technology or you support slavery.
Well, I was quoted $100K with 30% tax credits, for a total price of $70K (eventually). I spend $300/month on electricity and the panels will cover 82% of my bill, for annual savings of \~3K. $70K/$3K = 23 1/3 years. Obviously, the price of power will be going up, so that will cut the years but even 15 years out is a long time.
I'm not on a crusade here. But if there's no ROI, no emergency power AND no good to mankind, there's really no reason to do it.
With battery? A battery will add $20k+ to a project. 

This doesn’t give us any idea on your payback. How big is the system. How many kWh does it generate. What does a kWh cost you/what does the utility pay you to export? 

Is this the only quote you received? Was it a door knocker? Have you looked at other companies yourself. 

To put it in perspective, to offset my usage I’d expect to spend about $25k before incentives. I’d expect this to generate about 10,000kWh a year, with a value of about $1700. This has a simple payback of about 10 years, but if power increasing (likely) this period is reduced. 

The percentage offset is really useless information. The asset is a certain size, generates certain credits, and these credits are worth a certain amount. So you can’t look at the other 18% as part of your payback calculation - it has nothing to do with the investment.
Your quote seems quite high. It doesn’t sound like solar is a good fit for you anyway but it’s still worth mentioning.

How many kW was your quote? For comparison purposes, a 32kW Sunpower (generally most expensive) system was 89k before the tax credit and that was about 4 months ago before prices started dropping (from some manufacturers).

Edit: I saw another comment that it was a doorknocker company. That’s likely why price was high.
>Well, I was quoted $100K with 30% tax credits

thats your problem, a fully speced out Tesla Solar Roof with multiple powerwalls is less then that and includes a new roof, you are getting your math based on a "imma take this fool" quote. a 17 Kw Array with 3 power walls from Tesla is 70 grand BEFORE the 30% tax credit that brings it down to roughly 50 grand. 

What where you quoted?
No battery, only quote, yes a door knocker.

I use approximately 44.6K Kwh per year, which means this system would handle about 36.5K. At $25K/10K kWh, that costs me $90K. So, roughly the same.

Let me know if I got that math wrong. And thanks for your help!!
Very helpful, thank you
Holy crap. Yeah, I was quoted $100K ($70K after tax credit) for panels only, no battery.
You use A LOT of energy. Like. A lot. You’re probably better spending money first to become more efficient and then going solar. 

So the price isn’t as egregious as I first thought. But I’d reach out to 2 or 3 other companies. Have them explain the system in depth and then you can make an educated decision.
Very helpful, thank you. We've only lived here a month and are still figuring things out, so hoping it goes down.
GAF warranty is good with solar, so if your roof installer used GAF shingles then you are good.

Heee us the info directly from GAF
https://acrobat.adobe.com/id/urn:aaid:sc:VA6C2:695e7c7e-fb79-46ee-b983-340000ed1c8e
GAF Golden pledge will warranty your roof for 50 years (25 year workmanship) and warranty the solar install area for 20 years if you put their ice n water barrier under the install area. They offer this regardless which solar installer you use.
I've replaced our roof twice. It was stripped down completely, last year was stripped again even though not at the end of it's 'on-paper' life. In replacing this time, doing it early than the written life, we probably saved ourselves some future headaches - it just wouldn't have made it that long even without solar.

In replacing, I looked for a solid roofer, vetted a number of them just as I did with solar. I wanted to make sure I had a good install before the panels went up - had the roof done in May and panels went up mid-October. He knew why we were re-roofing and stands behind his work.

With the panels, I vetted solar companies as well. Really delve through reviews; BBB, Angi, Yelp, Google. Who will stand behind their install, who has great reviews on trouble-free installs? Going solar, cheapest is not always best. I have a 10 year warranty on the solar work done on my roof.

I think warranties are a crap shoot, to be honest. No guarantee anything is going to last.  Someone can take something shitty and make something good out of it, or take something good and make something shitty out of it. Great workmanship is worth far more than a warranty, IMO.
Find a company that does both. Then they can only look in the mirror when you have a warranty claim.
Most roof warrantys are useless, as many companies dissolve and reform a new company every few years to avoid claims.  Plus the solar panels will shield the shingles from the sun and make them last longer if anything.   If the solar installer does a careful job, there should be no leaks and the roof will be fine.
I have a metal roof and the solar company brought in the original roofer to do all the work for the mounts to make  sure the warranty stays intact.
My solar company warrants their install and does roofing repairs.
Your solar installer can work with the roofer to keep the warranty intact. We do it on occasion for customers who don’t want to void their roofers workmanship warranty . Roofer tears off roof to sheathing, solar installer comes out and does some work (installs posts) roofer finishes roofing around posts and voila. No roof penetrations through the shingles. 

Also, a good solar installer will offer 10 year leak protection on their install even if it’s done directly through the shingles into the joists. Most roofers only offer like 1-10 years on their workmanship warranty (leak protection) anyway so even if you void the roofers workmanship warranty the solar installer might be offering better leak protection on a retrofit solar install anyhow (and it’s cheaper) cuz it’s less trips to your house.
Find an installer with a longer warranty.  My company offers 25 year workmanship (we just install solar, not roofs).  Once roofers hear that, they are fine with keeping their warranty intact.
[deleted]
[deleted]
Most manufacturers are fine with it if you have the roofers install the stand-offs while they're doing the roof, for example using IronRidge QBase composition mounts. That way, it's not drilling into the shingles.
Metal roof?
Maybe you can try getting solar quotes first and ask them which roofers they work with
Standing seam metal roof. No penetrations needed, so it won't void your warranty. On top of that, the warranty is usually 40-50 years, so it won't have to be replaced before your solar.
This is super helpful!  Our top two roof quotes both are GAF certified.  I'll pass this along and see what they say.

If anyone has gone through this process, please share how it went.
> Good luck trying to collect on this warrant.
> 
> I can send you the emails where they denied my claim and the roof had not even been installed for a year.

Good luck trying to collect on this warrant.

I can send you the emails where they denied my claim and the roof had not even been installed for a year.
> ill warranty your roof for 50 years (25 year workmanship) and warranty the solar install area for 20 years if you put their ice n water ba

Good luck trying to collect on this warrant. 

I can send you the emails where they denied my claim and the roof had not even been installed for a year.
Except this usually means it’s a roofing company who decides to install solar and they just usually aren’t that good at the solar side of things
I hate to say this but did you actually read the workmanship warranty? I’d be really surprised if it includes labor. And let’s say 10 years from now, a screw comes loose that was holding conduit in place, is that a workmanship issue? Unlikely. 

25-year workmanship warranties are a gimmick. Primarily because after a couple of years, with rare exception, nobody would be able to prove faulty workmanship.

Roof leak warranties are a bit easier to prove however.
>Because ~~your~~ **you're** screwing bolts through the shingles, which ~~causes~~ can cause leaks.

FIFY
What? OP’s question about how solar and roof warranties play together applies to literally every rooftop solar install.
Just to throw this out there - I have the GAF energy solar Shingles, and they are pretty good. If you’re going to replace your roof anyways, why not go solar shingles instead?

Added benefit: GAF energy is the only company you have to deal with. No pointing fingers at the roofers / solar installers when something goes wrong.

EDIT: I just saw you mentioned GAF solar shingles on your original post. I’m blind apparently. Never mind then.
[removed]
Did they say why? I’m curious- I have heard that shingle warranties are virtually impossible to get paid out. 

Someone told me that to be able to get their warranty that there had to be an inspection by the shingle company after install and, for example, if there were shingles and flashing, a water barrier had to installed something like 3 feet up the wall where the shingles met the wall (meaning siding had to be removed) and other equally undoable steps)
My local companies disagree.
Yes, I read it, since it's my company selling with it. And yes, labor is included if it's a workmanship issue, even at year 20. If it's an issue with the system, even many years on, we can generally tell.
My bad, I was replying another poster who was saying the offset was so little. It was hardly worth it.
I really wanted the solar shingles, but it was cost prohibitive compared to panels.
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
What happens at year 15 if your customers roof is leaking cuz it needs to be replaced?
Right. Agreed. 

But compared to the costs of both a new roof and panels, it is more comparable. 

Still not sure if it’s cheaper… but having a single vendor who can’t point fingers at the other and not having to worry about animals taking up home under panels is worth it.
If it’s leaking because it needs to be replaced, it’s not the fault of the solar.  So not covered under the warranty. We advise all our customers that the solar is going to last 25 years or more, and the roof needs to last that long as well or be prepared for a remove and replace, which isn’t inexpensive.
I got a new roof when i got solar, so i had two quotes from the same company to compare. The solar shingles were 26k more and they didn't produce as much energy as the panels.
Enphase warranty covers parts.  Installer warranty will say what labor etc installer will cover.
Enphase covers product replacement for 25 years but you have to check the workmanship warranty from your installer to see if it covers service/labor or not.
Standard is, the part cost is covered under the warranty, but most often the labor to replace that part is not covered. Cost to replace an inverter depends on height & slope of roof, and where the panel is located in the array (on the end of one row?  In the middle of 6 rows x 6 rows?).
https://enphase.com/warranty/us
Check with your financing company
u/DrGepetto

You have by an easy 10x wasted enough folks time to cover the $550
Sounds reasonable in my area of the States. There is cost associated in getting to your location and costs for the time to get on the roof, address and replace. Unless you have a special labor warranty, you pay for time and labor. 

Warranty on a replacement part is different. A part breaks that warranty covers its replacement but you have to pay for it to be replaced.
So the benefit of a micro-inv system is that one inverter goes out and it's not really the end of the world.

I would say it's pretty standard for the generic warranty to not cover labor for non-workmanship issues.

That said, you mentioned it's an end-unit.  That's like 10 minute of work to replace, maybe 30 with a full system check and setup/breakdown. 1 guy, almost no equipment.

The mobilization fee should be a draw on the hourly rate, not in addition to, imo.
The main reason that companies like Tesla utilizes String arrays is to reduce costs during the warranty period.  Taking almost  97+% of  possible points of failure to ground level and therefore reducing labor costs(being the most expensive part); it’s minimal when teams don’t have to touch the sometimes 3 stories high solar array.

Most Installers will cover equipment costs because they are solid  state components covered by manufacturers warranty(Supper low failure rates).  But it will seldom included the cost of labor to replace a failed micro inverter(power optimizer).  Disassembly of an array to achieve a repair is time consuming and can easily compromise the anchor points.  Getting to a solar cell that’s 4-6 panels deep in a sometimes steep 3 story roof line is no easy feat.  I rather have my installer warrant the equipment at ground level than pay several $$$ and some situations the cost to repair a system is similar in cost to a new install; due to the high labor cost. Another reason why companies like Tesla won’t touch an installed systems.  Way more cost effective to add another new system than touch a susceptible to damage (workmanship warranty would be void) older system. You’re asking an installer to re-certify the anchor points that have cooked and baked for years; Highly improbable without major labor incursions.

Unless you have terrible shading issues. The optimizers (micro inverters) don’t really provide much improvement over a correctly installed and sized string array. Of course companies go out of business, & they will.  Charging out equipment at ground level is preferred & can be performed quickly and easily with minimal effort. Compared to removing solar panels. Difficult and dangerous at best. 

Good luck.  Ask multiple installers for quotes. It might be easier & far less expensive to leave the under performing panel as is; unless you have a bad batch and have multiple failures. Except the replacement panel or parts until it becomes more cost effective to do more than just 1 panel. Cross your fingers that the defect is limited to just that micro inverter. If you are getting a 50+% production value out of the single panel wait until it fails.  It might not make financial sense to spend such $$$ unless you start to get multiple units fail. 

Micro inverters can have defects or premature death in batches.  I would monitor the array and if you have multiple units start to fail; you can seek legal action to have manufacture warranty the cost of replacement. As it can cost in the Thousands in labor for a bad batch.  Seen post like this in the past. The costs can easily Multiply exponentially as more and more start to lost normal production capability.
Not sure I'm following.  Installer says I'm responsible.  The warranty I have from them just says panels inverters etc covered for x years. I think 25.
End of row. Second story roof on a dormer with low pitch
Does your contract state that?  Mine doesn't say anything about who's responsible for labor. Seems like an easy thing to add to avoid confusion but prob doesn't help with sales if a customer is going over the details and sees that.
All valid inputs. Thank you.  I was also considering the cost value of just leaving it as is vs spending $500 to fix it. It's going to take a long time to recoup $500 from that panel. 

I'm also concerned that this won't fix the issue and I'll be dealing with the aolar company again for more follow ups etc and having to deal with this type of back and forth repeatedly.  I had a panel fail earlier and there was a lot of back and forth between my installer the panel mfg and inverter mfg on what part is bad etc.  I wouldn't be surprised if that happens again.
Normally the installer warranty is more specific and detailed on what it covered.
Then their quote seems pretty high. We'd charge around $300 if it's less than an hour drive from our shop.
My contract states…. “The first 10 years ———— will provide full bumper to bumper service on your solar installation. After 10 years, should any equipment fall under the manufacturer’s component specific warranty ————- will provide the labor to rectify the issue at no cost to the homeowner.”

If your contract does not state it covers labor, it doesn’t. Simple and like most other things…. If the words aren’t there, it’s not covered.

Then again, if the company isn’t around, it’s a moot point.
Mine doesn't say. Has generic language about covering workmanship for 10 years. Nothing about who's responsible for hardware issues under warranty
They're about an hour.  This feels like a bit of a bait and switch even if it's not. I think this should have been spelled out in the contract and not left to interpretation after the fact. I would have considered this when selecting a provider and prob gone with the guy closer to me.
I think a reasonable thing to do would be able to provide a discounted rate for the labor at their cost or something like that for the warranty replacement. It doesn't seem fair to be charging me $200 an hour to replace the defective item. Being more explicit about this up front and in writing prevents all of this.
If it doesn't say labor is covered, you can presume it is not. Our panels have a parts and labor warranty and they're listed separately. Our inverters, like yours, have only a parts warranty. You can always shop around to see if you can find someone else to replace the inverter for less, but that may void your workmanship warranty with your installer.
Okay, wow each part of my system has laid out what the different warranties are. And who covers the labor Etc on them, and then the extended warranty as well on top of that. If you have one where it doesn't specify anything about Labor coverage for the equipment, then they're probably is none.
workmanship means that they installed everything right. that wouldn't cover labor on a failed part as thats different, unless you can prove they caused the unit to fail early due to poor install techniques.
Most installers do not spell this out in the contract.  I don't think it's a bait & switch, unless they promised you something different verbally.  

How many other systems in your home get fixed completely free if they go down, even if under warranty?
I don't. I believe in paying fair for the work completed. They have to get a crew - you will have at the least 2 guys. They are going up on your roof. $100.00 an hour feels fair to me for labor cost for someone getting up on my roof.

Labor costs change throughout the years, you aren't going to find any labor rate written into a contract.

You can always pay a laborer to get up there on the roof, replace the item and see if he can correctly wire it without screwing something else up. Or you pay a reasonable amount for a crew to come to your house and fix it.

It's on the homeowner, you, to read your contract before you sign it. Again, if the words aren't there, it's not a contracted item. But I still feel the labor rates are reasonable. We'll agree to disagree.
This makes sense to me. I think it should be spelled out pretty clearly in black and white. What I don't agree with is that if it doesn't say it then it's up for interpretation and my assumption is that a warranty claim includes the labor required to replace the item.
If a part of my car breaks under warranty the time to replace it is also included.  Comparing a $500 dishwasher to a $25k solar system isn't the same.  Closer to a car.
There's definitely markup in their labor rates. They're making some amount of profit on saying those guys out to do the work. What I'm recommending is that they have a note that says we'll do it at the current cost as opposed to with markup.
Yes. Most times there is a section for manufacturers warranty (parts), a workmanship warranty for anything they just plain need to repair that they did wrong, and a installers labor warranty for the labor portion of any parts that go bad. I guess some companies play on the fact that not everybody is going to read each portion or that if they leave it out completely people will like you assume that it's covered and not question it. I'm sorry
It does say, though, if the issue is a microinverter failure. My Enphase warranty says "This Limited Warranty does not include any cost of labor related to (i) un-installing Covered Product; (ii) reinstalling a repaired or replacement product, or (iii) the removal, installation or troubleshooting of the Covered Owner's electrical systems." This appears to be true going back multiple iterations of the warranty. Your installer's workmanship warranty covers errors or quality issues with their work, but unless they installed the microinverter incorrectly or otherwise did something to cause its failure, you're dealing with the Enphase warranty, not the workmanship warranty. Unfortunate, but it is pretty clearly stated.
Don't forget to account for the revenue they'll lose when they're at your site, plus the cost of filing the warranty paperwork needed. If you want them to be there for you in the long term you'll have to pay the price. Alternatively you can get certified on the enphase stuff and just replace it yourself.
Yea I looked at this and agree.  The weirder part is my contract only states the 10 year workmanship warranty and no mention of the mfg warranty at all. All the warranty language wrt mfg equipment is in emails etc.
That is true for ours too (though they made a point of noting the warranty periods before we signed--our panels can have either labor + parts or parts only depending on whether the installer is certified, which ours is). We got an email right after PTO with PDFs of the equipment warranties, but the contract itself only has the specifications for the equipment and the workmanship warranty--probably because for any warranty claim tied to equipment failure, the claim will be directly with the manufacturer. The labor warranty for our panels doesn't require that we use the original installer for the repair--just any of their certified installers.
I keep saying that when I shed unused power to the grid at a minimal return to me my utility pays ZERO generation costs and then sells it to my neighbor for maximum profit with almost zero transmission cost. They buy low and sell high. Sdg&e makes $1Million/day PROFIT but somehow that isn’t enough.
There’s a political answer and there’s the real answer.
Most definitely not true in California.  People who have solar or are going to install solar are getting screwed by the power company with the rate plan charges planned for August of next year.
So CA NEM 3.0 is bullshit according to this?
Let’s hope the utility companies start to realize this and find a way to make it a win win for everyone!
Article was written in 2021. Bless its little heart.
Your solar roof is not only removing you from the grid but also supplying power to the grid and it does this at the hours where the grid is at peak demand. It is replacing gas turbine and Peakers generation, which is the most expensive generation. It also reduces the load on the transmission system since less power needs to be imported. The utility is getting this power at the average cost but is either selling some of this power at peak cost or is replacing generation at peak cost. It also didn't have to install new generation and transmission facilities. The utilities are making out like bandits.
I don’t get it… so is solar a financially smart choice or no?
Nope, they aren't. Ever since solar was a thing about 15 years ago, our electricity rate went up more than it used to be 40 years prior. 

Electricity company has to justify some people's "saving" on to the bill from the rest.
Such a lazy asshole answer. The 1st thing I did was Google it, it said south. Thanks genius.
Another reason they don't send you a check anymore is because they sell large scale community solar grids to Chinese entities. Power companies found more benefit in reaping rewards from rooftop solar. It's their only money grab now. In an ideal world, more solar would already be up if homeowners were still compensated.
originally I read that it is causing prices to go up, because high energy users are installing them, and basically the energy company isn't making the profits it used to. As people are using less, the lower tiers (poor people) have their rates go up. 

I recommend people shoot for 75% energy use, mainly because most of the time you can get it rated where you pay a marginal cost. As you use more power, the rate cost goes up, so your solar is chipping away at the expensive energy while letting you buy the lower / cheaper tier of energy.
Whispering thank you right now
Especially west facing panels for that peak rate power.
Time to buy a battery.
The seeds of Nem3’s death are already being planted…
Generation and transmission costs during the day are tiny. In California, solar costs 4 cents on average to generate, maybe a penny  more in transmission. The majority of your bill is going to funding fixed cost infrastructure and standby power.

The real problem is that these fixed costs are paid for based on consumption, giving people the wrong perception about how much electricity costs to generate and transmit.
Under net metering the utility has to pay ALL of the costs you mentioned for the kWh they deliver back to you later. That's where the disconnect is in the value of solar argument.
Not really profit since they’re decoupled but I guess it would save other ratepayers money in that instance
Do you not have net metering?
Could you please help elaborate or redirect me to some more information about this
Having looked over the numbers I can tell you what’s happened is solar owners have been screwing over the power companies for many years and now people are pissed that they can’t screw them anymore. 

You can’t have so many people with $0/month bills because they have sold only power at 30x the wholesale cost of that power. Those linemen aren’t free.
It should be a crime to mandate that you can't sell something for as much as a big company can, when its the exact same thing...
Not exactly. The study only gets there by considering environmental and health benefits, but only by assuming the energy displaced is fossil fuel. It also doesn't consider the cost of batteries, even though that is the only way to actually displace fossil fuels with solar.
Is this sarcasm? Why would they lessen their profits if they can just buy your electricity so cheaply and sell it for a huge margin.
It’s not a win for them. Most electric companies are allowed to charge their customers for infrastructure costs PLUS a fixed profit. If they can’t justify buying more infrastructure then they loose that profit.
RePost Bot?   Ah well.  Still topical or nobody would have clicked on it, right?
It was an academic journal (Elsevier).  Check the "referral by" section and you will see other recent work referencing this study.

This is now academic research works.  It takes a while to propagate and it gets vetted along the way.  What we (public, etc) need to do is give it more visibility so our (dear) CPUC cannot ignore it.
This is only true in areas that are building new generation and that generation is getting avoided by the new onsite / solar generation.

Why?  Because most utilities are regulated to a capital cost plus structure where the building of the plant (aka Capital investment means profits but the operation of the plan (which is O&M, not capital) doesn't mean much if any profits.  And the fuel costs usually don't have any profit margin allowed.  

So this is some voodoo math for most of the country - based on some mythical cost avoidance that simply isn't reality.  Per capita energy use is dropping for most of the country because of more efficient appliances and houses.
Solar does not generate at peak demand. Look at any electricity demand chart. Peak demand starts around 5PM and goes well into the evening. https://www.caiso.com/TodaysOutlook/Pages/default.aspx#section-net-demand-trend
The answer is… it depends. It’s a ratio of roof space/orientation to power usage to power cost to solar install cost to net metering return value. 

Do you have enough roof space to offset 100% of your power needs? Or do you need a ground mount to meet your needs? Is that roof space orientated and unshaded enough to minimize your cost per kWh? Does your roof or electrical need any upgrades to handle solar? Is your utility cost of electricity more than ~15cents/kWh? Do you have the resources to buy solar in cash or need to finance/lease? Do you have enough tax liability to utilize the federal tax credit? Is there any other incentives in your area (ie. SREC’s)? Does your utility offer 1-for-1 net metering or net billing? Do net metering credits carry-over monthly with an annual true up or true up monthly? Are extra credits paid out at retail or wholesale rate? Do you plan to keep your house for 10+ years? Does your HOA or AHJ have a regulatory restrictions for solar? Does your utility have a maximum system size limit or maximum power offset % based on historical power usage?

I’m sure there’s other questions but those are the important ones.
https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/comments/188awor/the\_math\_of\_solar/
Wouldn't south be better? West you only get evening sun, east morning.
Ours is being installed next week!
I hope so.
[deleted]
>The real problem is that these fixed costs are paid for based on consumption, giving people the wrong perception about how much electricity costs to generate and transmit.

"fixed" cost is certainly apropos when your utility generates its profits based on cost-plus contracts for infrastructure that it negotiated with captured government bodies. And in California payment is shifting away from a consumption based model, at least for those of us tied to investor-owned utilities.
My hero!

At noon I sell a kWh to PG&E for 30¢ when they could buy it wholesale for 1¢ (or even negative money). 

At midnight I charge my EV by buying a kWh for 30¢ when the wholesale cost is 7¢. 

On my bill I have to pay nothing. I sold and bought a kWh at the same price. To PG&E they avoided 1¢ in the afternoon but paid 7¢ at midnight. So I cost them 6¢ that day.
Shhh, people don’t like to hear the truth
Yes, profit. Check their financial statement.
2.0
Take a look at the current rate plans from the power companies.  Pay close attention to the cost for the electricity and the date the rate plans expire.  Then compare with the new rate plans.  Notice the difference and how anyone who has solar is getting screwed for having installed solar.
Wait.... are you on the side of the power company? Isn't the whole point of going solar is to be less dependent on power companies and be more off the grid? And since when did power companies care about the infrastructure and customers over profit?
Well, there's also the distribution cost.  But since you are right next to your neighbors, the distribution cost for your power is pretty low.
What does this statement mean in the context of NEM 3.0? Because big solar companies *are* selling into the grid at wholesale rates, or lower, and not at the retail rates that rooftop solar owners were able to get for many years.
Sure. Go ahead and built the entire distribution network for you to sell the thing, and I'm OK with you being allowed to.

When you are using somebody else's network to see that thing, and the network cost is a large fraction of the original sale cost of the item, it makes no sense for you to be able to sell at the same price as the company. 

Time-of-use avoided-cost sale price is what's fair.
Is this a failure of civics education?  Why would we permit our public utilities to price gouge ourselves? Why would we give monopoly rights to a company that is not accountable to the people?

It's not up to the utilities, it's up to the government to regulate the organizations that provide public utilities.
what difference does the 2021 pub matter?  VOS calculations seriously undervalue rooftop solar and are a capitulation to preserving utility profits.
Oh I'm in agreement. I could have been clearer.

It just seems like corporate greed in the US has ratcheted up since 2021 for the residential solar sector.
I was once in a meeting chaired by a VP of the utility company I used to work for. Some one made the same argument you did. The VP said that the company doesn’t like to raise rates because it’s customers won’t be happy about it and that the PSC of the state determines what the rate increases are. Rate increases aren’t automatic and the utility has to fight for them. If an utility can increase its profit without increasing its rate then the PSC will turn a blind eye.
It all depends on the time of year and the latitude of the location. Solar is available during daylight hours. There are places and times where for a few hours you can have high demand in the evenings after the sun has gone down. A few hours of battery storage can handle that stretch or you can use gas turbines.
I think burning less fossil fuel and lowering your carbon foot print should be considered in the equation. I would pay more for cleaner energy
Key question: what is your $/kW?  In Australia it is \~$1/kW (permits and grid connection are cheap/standard) and solar rooftop penetration is something like 30% (maybe higher).  Here in the SF Bay Area my cost was $3/kW and it was a pretty good price.   We need to streamline and standardize permits and connections.
The value of the electricity you produce is determined by the time of day.  You produce between 4pm and 9pm, that's peak.
If you are in North America, there is no situation in which you want your panels facing North. If the slope is nominal, like 5 degrees, you may be okay with it, but only someone who was completely ignorant would prefer North to any other compass direction.
For-profit utilities should be seen as the crime against the population that they are.  Also, that includes oil.

But especially, FUCK PG&E.  Seize the infrastructure, clawback the exec bonuses, impoverish the C-levels. Or imprison them, better yet.
I would be fine with that, but I wouldn't expect it to change much. Certainly not in the short term.

Which is why politicians are likely reluctant to do it. They like having PG&E here to absorb the hate.
I have a 12kW system in NEM2.0 (aka $0/m bill). I’m screwing over the power company to my benefit. That being said I don’t need to lie about what is happening. I’ve run the numbers, I see why it is so good for me and consequently so bad for PG&E. All the more reason I rushed to get my system done before NEM3.0. 

I’m just an honest thief.
Then charge a reasonable distribution fee, mandated to be a reasonable representation of the guitar to transmit the power.. I'd be shocked if it's more than $0.01 / kwh.

Then allow solar producers to sell at market rates.
Isn’t distribution a separate line item?
Distribution costs are mostly fixed. Maintaining the physical infrastructure is whats expensive, not sending power.
Right, ACC.. but ACC should be updated and should take all components into account, not just generation.

The CPUC has been asked to update ACC but it looks it won't do it until 2026
This is already happening in a lot of places. It’s why I didn’t get solar.
The real answer is that not much would change if the government takes over and private utilities serve as a convenient scapegoat for politicians.
In America at least, the government seems to be beholden to large donors, not the people. Just look at California.
The rate of return on capital investment is fixed in a range by most Public Utility Commissions (PUCs) or Public Service Commissions (PSCs).

Of course it depends on the rate recovery mechanism in place (varies by state) but usually there is an upper cap on this ROI as a percentage.  If the utility exceeds that upper rate cap, then either rates automatically come back down and/or a refund is issued to customers.  The same type of thing happens with the lower bounds of this rate of return - automatic increases.

But yea, you are correct that the utilities don't want to raise rates. They have monopoly on a rather in-elastic service with a fat profit margin virtually guaranteed.  No need to upset the apple cart.

Anyway my point here is that the utility makes more from that new plant being built than from the float on your distributed generation resource.
I appreciate you clarifying that your original point was incorrect. I think it's important for people to understand that solar only can replace fossil if it is paired with storage. Without storage, you still run into using fossil for peak generation, as the timing just doesn't match.
Do you mean $/Watt? $3/kW would be insane cheap haha. $2.50-$3.00 is pretty average right now for a cash price system. Solar Financing will push it well over $4.00 with finance fees.
I didn’t realize how much difference having west vs East panels makes a difference in CA, a buddy has a 12kw system facing east, I have an 11.2kw system facing west. I use more power yearly, he owed $1200 at the end of the year, I had a $600 bill credit, all because I’m making power at a more expensive TOD
That doesn't sound right. I'll have to do some Google-ing. Thanks for the info
Your* utility peak is there. Not every area in the same.
Yea its south, not west. For my area anyway.
Just wanna add fuck DTE. They just got another rate increase approved too.
That's the difference. You're an honest thief. They're not. 

The more people can be independent and off grid the better off we'll be. But of course the power corporations will throw money at the politicians or whomever in charge to weasel some laws into screwing over those people as well too
FERC 2222 will allow distribution DERs access to participate in wholesale markets in 2026.
I agree. You should be able to sell your solar at the wholesale rate of 4 cents per KWH.
My power company breaks down the cost per kWh on the bill, 1/4th is the actual power cost, everything else is maintenance of some sort.
Not on your NEM3 credit.
It is for me in Mass

Same size as supply
A lot of people don't understand that. It's not the cost of sending power to the next house over, it's the coat of the entire grid being maintained.

I don't agree with NEM3 as I believe the power companies should be investing in energy storage, not pushing it on the customer, but people using the grid as their 'battery' shouldn't expect to do so for nothing.
Yes, they do but to get that money they have to raise their customers bills. It’s best not to do that. Another way to make more profit is to lower cost.
Unlike many people, I don’t need solar to immediately replace fossil fuel. I know everything takes time. Solar can be 40%-50% of generation without need for much storage since a majority of electric consumption is during the day. With wind and nuclear we can reduce fossil fuels power down to 10%-20%. And we can do this in 5 to 10 years. Meanwhile the cost of battery storage will be decreasing. So, by the time we need it battery storage will be cheap.
Yep, $/kW. Oops.
What didn't sound right? Think about when the majority of families are home and using appliances in their house.
Google is your friend. Anyone living in the USA would benefit from a southern, eastern,or western facing array. North facing solar in the USA is the absolute worst case scenario, and will produce considerably lower energy than the panels being oriented in any other direction.
Have a look at Octopus Agile in the UK, the price changes half hourly and is set the day before.

It’s when people get home from work or school, cook, clean etc.
Power costs vary based on demand. Demand at least in hot areas during the summer is really high in the late afternoon. Air-conditioning usage peaks at that point.That makes any power generated in the late afternoon really valuable.
Very true! In that sense they may be correct. Someone else said they were talking about UK.
A friend of mine is a consultant in the energy sector and told me the rate DTE was approved for was still far less than what DTE was actually asking for. That's after a banner year earning hundreds of millions in profit, not even just revenue. Profit. Ridiculous.

God forbid they actually *take less profit* to pay for infrastructure upgrades and maintenance and expansion. In capitalist hellscape America, the notion of taking less profit to the benefit of literally everyone else isn't even raised. Never have I heard a reporter ask this question to any politician or business leader. The propaganda runs deeeeep.
If everyone had a solar system and a $0/month bill, who pays the lineman’s salary?
Same in Florida as well

Also fuel charge is a separate line item, same size as the generation fee, but carries a "over 1000kw" penalty
If the utility was investing in energy storage, the cost of that would be pushed to the customer either way. Under old NEM standards, the majority of costs would then fall onto the customers without NEM.
I think it's a smart move and an inevitable move for solar customers to build up their own energy storage. If utility company had to build all these energy storage to store the excess energy being produced during day time, it will require a lot of land space and more importantly, it doesn't help relieving the grid. While solar customers have their own storage locally, they can go off the grid during peak hours and that'll actually take the load off the grid. 

I think the government and the industry should increase the incentive of residential battery storage and lower the price and make it more affordable for customers to buy and install batteries.
Dont solar owners maintain their section of the grid? I mean everything from my roof to the meter I have to upkeep? That's a little something.
They’re probably not familiar with TOU rate plans.
I guess I'm thinking in terms of overall power. West your losing a lot of daytime hours, and the sun does stay up until 9 like the person said, maybe 6 or 7 in summer. At least here anyway so maybe they person is from a more ideal place for west.
Ah, I'm in US. That explains  a bit. The sun doesn't stay up till 9 for me even in the summer. Solar company told me south (prior to nem 3.0 anyway) 

Even getting a couple more hous in evening would probably save me less than all day as my usage is pretty high all around
 Thanks
Thanks, I guess with nem 3 west makes more sense for some, though I am not getting daylight until 9 even in the summer.
Absolutely. It's a bullshit circle. If the reporter asks hard questions then the assholes will just walk out and refuse to come back. So we get this more damaging form of media that's just an inherent endorsement of whatever messaging the companies choose to spin. The only way I see it changing is if all media reporters came together and chose to say no more to the fluff bullshit but with how much money and ad revenue is at play I doubt that ever happening.
The CEO can pay out of his salary
Heavy industry and commercial power use-  both of which are not likely to cover their needs through self generation
Except NOT everyone can.  Condos, apartments, shady areas, and other places that weren't good candidates for solar, even under NEM 2 are that much more expensive under NEM 3, and would never break-even under NEM 3 + tiered grid maintenance fees.

The point was to get more renewable energy in the state of California and the combination of NEM 3.0 AND income-tiered fees is going to stop the proliferation of solar energy unless the price of batteries drastically plummets in the short term or the retail energy rates climb astronomically.

Tiered grid fees changes little to most non-solar accounts, but screws the payback time for solar accounts, regardless of which NEM they're on.  Instead of contemplating spending $20,000-$60,000 for a typical system (with or without batteries) so that you could break even in 5-12 years and then have a lower total electricity cost over 25 years; you're looking at spending $20,000-$60,000 that actually had a final cost at or above just paying the utility every month (with typical annual price increases) but without the effort, headaches, and roof concerns.  You'd have some blackout resiliency with the batteries, but you could also get that, at a lower cost, by just having a battery-only system.
The counter to that is that the costs are still increasing anyways. Soon California will charge people who have a 100% self reliant solar and battery setup more if they're in a higher salary range, just for being connected to the grid.
I take the opposite view. Utility scale storage is going to be much more cost effective(space is a negligible cost here), just like utility scale solar is much more cost effective.

I am also skeptical that residential batteries actually relieve the grid. Grids have to be sized for peak usage, and in an emergency people are going to be sucking down power to charge their batteries "just in case". Its entirely possible all these batteries will *increase* peak usage as we get situations where everybody wants to charge up at the same time.
Do you pay for the power pole outside your home if it gets knocked over by a car accident, or pay to fix a transformer that was hit by lightening?


The solar setup is your personal equipment, and you hook into the grid, you are not the actual grid.


It's similar, but not the same. It's why you need a permit for PTO, because the companies don't want you hurting the grid or the people who work on it.
Fun fact: Arrays with west exposure will typically out perform the same size array facing east in terms of energy production. This is due to fog build up overnight that will affect morning efficiency, but generally has cleared out by midday. That is not what the parent comment was referring to though.

Utility companies charge fluctuating prices for electricity depending on the immediate demand at the time. If you overproduce by X number of kWh in the morning, it is less valuable to the power company than if you were to overproduce by X kWh at night.
You’re correct about the physics, but missing the point others are making about the economics. Electricity produced in the late afternoon / early evening is worth more than electricity produced during the middle of the day, since that’s when demand peaks.
I think it depends largely on location and electric plans.   But I'll take my example.   This past summer there was an entire month where electricity sent back to the grid around noon would be sold at 6 cents per kwh, and power sold at 6pm could be sold back at 5 DOLLARS per kwh.    The south facing panel produces more overall, but that extra would be sold back at 6 cents.    The west facing panels would really perform well at 6pm and sell back at $5.   So financially west facing panels can be better and they can also provide a stabilizing force for the grid.


I really appreciate you taking the action of googling things and realizing the limits of one's knowledge and really hate that you are getting downvoted.   But in your googling journey, good tip is to start with the keyword "duck curve".   It really shows you how the electric market gets squeezes in the evening when west facing panels can help.
Yeah even in the US electric wholesale spot prices are higher in the evening.
Good move to try to get me to defend CEO pay. 

She earns 53m/year? There are 25k employees. 

$2,120 yearly salary for lineman?
Dude you do realize it’s a woman not a man.
Or hear me out. 

You have a fee for connection to the grid that covers the fixed costs and the a variable price based on your actual usage.
People are still going to get solar but they are going to get less panels and more batteries. Battery systems are really quite cheap already.
I don’t agree with charging based on salary cap myself, but do agree there should be a flat fee (or some sort of fee/rate) for being grid tied.  But even then, that’s not too dissimilar to public works/services like schools, police, fire, etc where it scales with your taxes. You may never use it, but you pay because it’s available for you at any time. 

You’re not 100% self reliant if you are grid tied, that is an oxymoron.
The grid should remain at the size to handle peak usage for sure. But remember those flex alerts? I think residential battery can help with it.
The grid should be able to manage those distributed resources that are impacting the grid.

I recently listened to a podcast (Volts) with the CEO of SunRun (Mary Powell).  She was previously the CEO for Green Mountain Power, in Vermont and in the podcast she described her position then as one embracing DERs; something like "stop trying to beat the peaks, smooth them".   

(Smart) Utilities can use DERs to improve everybody's experience, including them.  The California IOUs should do this though perhaps they need to ask the CPUC to change their operating rules.
Oh yea east would be terrible here. Not for the fog though we have zero moisture/fog/humidity here. 

I get tou but thanks for the non rude explanation.  We have higher tou during 5-8 it's double per kwh. Sun goes down around 6 or 7. No solar company locally recommends west if you can do south.
It depends on location and rates. For me moving the panels I'd probably lose 6 hrs of electricity at 15c to gain maybe 2 at 30c. 

South is better here.
Thank you for that. And the more I research the more I find that in my particular case, I am actually right. 5 dollars is amazing 👏  With nem 3.0 we get pennies in CA now, so selling power doesn't really matter. And as far as my own peak rates it's double from 5-8 pm and the sun is "usable" until 7pm at best. 

So no, for me having panels in the west is absolutely worse than south. 

Like you said though I learned alot from reading all the replies about different areas. Even though alot of them were pissy and cocky. 

Have a good weekend.
Here it's 15 cents kwh, and 30 cents 5-8 pm
Do you hear yourself? 

***The CEO GETS $53MIL***  and all you care about is the "hypothetical salary" for a lineman???? lol

*You DO understand that whenever there's progress in technology it will/can result in  changes in/obsolete jobs and occupation. Many jobs that existed back then do not exist now due to technology.* 

But sure, keep at it about the "lineman's pay"
No I didn't know and am pretty sure the millionaire CEO who probably gets over 200% bonuses/yr doesn't care if I called her a him on Reddit. lol
But then everyone will get solar and batteries and there will be no need for sdge at all and everyone will get free environmentally friendly energy… oh wait…
>charge for grid-tied

I am fine with that, but the fixed charge can/should be based on max power delivered.  That's how it is done in some (most?) other markets.  My household then has to stay within that limit.

That makes sense from a grid point of view and from a household point of view.

Charing based on income is an income tax and should be discussed as such, not buried in a CPUC discussion.
I (and others) can only explain it to you. We can’t understand it for you.
You would have to do the numbers and compare but in my case I am already maxing out on roof space for East and South.  I didn't max on West because of the lower production but I may  add extra a couple of panels next year there to help with the peak rate.
AI isn’t going to fix a downed pole, buddy. 

Someone needs to pay their salaries. They ain’t slaves and they shouldn’t be struggling day to day.
I have the ability to disconnect from PG&E. Problem is that it’ll cost me maybe $70,000 more.  It’s not worth it to me.
Call solark tech help..they will go above and beyond to help you…seriously their tech ppl are awesome
I'm hoping for an answer as well.  Since this would be a potential issue with our wanted system.

  
Are BOTH Inverter/chargers set to trigger the generator at the same set-point?

You said the generator is hooked to the GRID inputs on the Sol-Arks?

Are the Sol-Arks setup to not export ANY power to the "grid"?

  
Are you using any AC coupled solar into the generator input(s) on the Sol-Arks?

Have you gotten any feed-back from Sol-Ark support?

Just tossing ideas out to try and figure out (like you are) why the 12ks can't/won't auto trigger the generator to start.
I assume you have the "generator connected to grid input" checkbox checked, grid charge checked,  and are running in voltage mode rather than percentage mode...
Figured it out before I got in touch with tech support. Turned out the gen start command was late coming and then wouldn't turn off. When it got to 56v and didn't turn off it struck me that it tries to charge the bank to 95% so i swapped display from voltage to % and it was only 80%. Went into the battery menu and discovered that when it was installed last year the bank was mistakenly entered as 5800AH and not the  5000AH it actually is by the original installer. Fixed that and all is well, starts and stops the generator where it should. 

Unfortunately they have been running discharging system to low for a year and for the past month or s it has been running until the inverters shut down on low voltage every single day.
Both generators are at the same trigger point

Where this is off grid, the generators are considered grid. This has worked well on a previous solark system I did with a larger inverter model. 

Set up not to export, load shed or any of that.

I have to call when I go to the site today but I had to set up wifi calling because there is no cell reception there.
So I went back this morning and it did trigger at 44.5 volts but that's 4 volts below what it's set to start at and that is discharging too much, that will cut the lifetime cycles in half...
Hopefully Sol-Ark support will have some ideas.  All I can think of is to raise the set-point a couple of volts.
That looks like SnapNRack RL U system. These come both with and without flashing. It looks like you have the Speed Seal (flashless) version. This has a foam gasket on the bottom that is filled with sealant.
If you have the name of the racking brand you can google the installation manual for it and see how they install it. Those do look weird, they look like a tile track for tile roofs but I never seen a foot like that.
Looks like a flashless mount with Butyl rubber on the bottom. They can leak if the bolt doesn’t hit a stud and wasn’t flashed before the second attempt to mount it properly.  Have someone inspect the attic to look for unsealed holes or bolts that missed the trusses.
No, flashing not needed.
I am not familiar with those specific mouting bracket.

However, the one used on my roof had a layer of rubbery/tar adhesive on the bottom. So you'd peel off a protective paper and that rubber/tar layer would sit against the shingles and be squished down when screwing the mounting block in place.

This would ensure the screw holes to remain water proof.

If you don't have that, the water could seep under the moubting bracket and find the screw hole.
Even if the manufacturer says this is ok I would never use this “time saving” crap where at best you are relying on a epdm gasket to hold up for 25 years. 
Just get a retrofit flashing and seal it under a layer of comp shingle like a proper install should…
[deleted]
Hey, in a week or two I'll install my system with the exact same brackets on metal roof with 12° slope. Mine doesn't have anything extra, just bare metal.
Do you guys have recommendations on what extra material to gather and what to look for when installing?
100%
That is correct.  The cheap easy amd fast method.
I’ll take a look at the solar install documents and look for the brand. Thanks.
Will do, thanks for the info.
You and my roofer are on the same page.  Probably won’t be an issue now, but at some point could be. The roofer said he could add flashing to the top brackets with no problem, but the inner panel brackets would have to have panels removed to access them. We bought the house with the solar already installed,
It’s butyl. The screws then become “self healing”.
We bought the house with solar and with no loan payment it’s been great. But for us at least, our electric bill was never  that high, so with a solar loan monthly payment, the cost would be about the same as just paying electric.

If I were to add solar from scratch, I’d finance it myself or have it installed with batteries primarily for power back up with any saving as a bonus. 

I’m not sure who the installer was, but Dominion hasn’t been an issue at all.
As a roofer that spends his winters fixing leaks i can tell you that flashing will fail. It’s a horrible design and it makes no sense that it’s allowed. It’s just a matter of when, not if it will eventually be an issue. But maybe you sell the place in 5-10 years and let the next buyer deal with it.
No, we’ll be here for years. I’m sure the solar installers will tell me the fuck off. Is there a solid fix you recommend, short of removing the panels?
Smother and Coat that stuff with roofing tar.
You could install some custom flashing to cover those brackets that are visible and reachable along the top. The only problem is what about all of the brackets that are hidden and you can’t reach under the solar panels. As much as I hate those brackets I could also see them holding up for longer than you might expect. Did you post this over on the r/solar? 
I wonder if they would have anything helpful to add.
NO. - Not for CA.  Are you on NEM 2 or 3?  And which rate plan are you on with the Power Company?  People in CA who install solar are getting screwed.  I would have them remove the system and pound sand.
It seems that your rate was 18.4c and they are proposing 13.8c, with the same annual escalator?  I don't see how you are loosing.  Assuming your equipment hasn't changed you should still have the same NEM 2.0 agreement in place.
That rate is incredible. Take it!
If the choices are current PPA at $0.184, new PPA at $0.138 with same end date, or get rid of the panels and just buy power off the grid, then certainly the new loan makes the most sense. $0.138 is considerably less than the very lowest SCE rate on any rate plan. If you think they'll negotiate further, though, you can try to talk them down on the escalator percentage. But even with the current escalator, you'll be at 20 cents per kWh in 2037--also less than any current rate. The one piece that could change things is how the new income-based fixed rate charges will shake out--but that's a couple of years out, and it may not end up happening at all.
Is it possible for you to get a personal loan or a 401k loan to pay it off?

What is the true up bill you've been paying ever since you had solar? If solar has been working for you, meaning you're not paying any true up bill ever since you had solar, then I think it's worth to keep the system.

However, you've gotta do some math here. They are trying to make a new deal with you with a new loan. Does it reset the warranty on the system? Try to get all the warranty details. What if there's a leak a year from now? What if one of the panels or inverter stops working or under produce? Will they honor the guarantee production from the previous contract (if any)?

As for the loan, how much are you going to pay in total with this new loan? Let's say your own loan was a 25-yr loan, you've paid 6 years and your balance is $12k. If this new loan gonna be another 25-yr, even if they lower the rate, you might be paying $14k in total.
Remove, and give the guy that shows up removing $100 bucks to leave the rails/mounts. Let them just take inverters and panels. It will be cake and cheap to DIY back.
Take it
There is a good chance they might settle the lease for a reduced amount, I might try offer them 5k to buyout the system and take their offer if they decline.
Now lease Lower than current rate?
What is the existing term? Are they increasing the expiration to 2037 or is that the existing expiration?
Take it. Do not do anything that would jeopardize your NEM status. A nem2 or 1 PPA or lease is better than owning a NEM3 system.
From what I can see nem 2. 

Rate plan Edison: Time Of Use 4-9pm
Highest rates: summer 4-9pm
Daily basic charge: $0.03 per day
Minimum daily charge: $0.35 per day
Baseline credit : $ 0.09 per kWh

I pay roughly $150 per month for panels and my electricity bill was basically $0. Now that the panels are deactivated and I've increased power consumption I pay roughly $191 per month. It's reducing my monthly bill but not by much.
Ended up getting the annual 2.9% increase waived to 0% and a 25% off the rate modification agreement.

Considering my 10 year sunk cost. Keeping ended up being cheaper.
Correct, I just wasn't sure. I saw that new setups on nem 3 are paying around .30?
>If the choices are current loan........

This is a PPA, not a loan. The OP does not own the system.
Solar bill $150/month roughly and 0$ to edision
Since deactivation solar $0 and Edison $191/month

Also the loan time frame doesn't restart. It just continues on
Physically not possible for me. Wouldn't that cost me like 15k? It's around a 8kw system.
Ended up getting the annual 2.9% increase waived to 0% and a 25% off the rate modification agreement.
Existing term. I added up what I've paid so far and the current payout rate. It's like $22k for a 7.5 kwh system. Seems keeping them at .13c isnt that bad.
Let’s hope they keep to their agreement and don’t add in any additional fees.
If so that would be completely nuts.  I just paid cash for my solar and batteries.  I'm paying more than .30 for my power from PG&E, and they give me almost nothing for exports.
>I saw that new setups on nem 3 are paying around .30?

NEM 3.0 is much more complicated than that. First off  the payments by the utility under NEM 3.0 averages at most $0.05 per kWh exported versus paying as much as $0.45 per kWh for power consumed from the utility. This is also mentioned below by another poster.
Edited to reflect that. Still better than the no solar option even if they do collect the panels at the end, though—and under a PPA, isn’t the solar company typically responsible for service and maintenance?
Ok, so if you agree with the new loan, how much will you be paying? If it remains at $150 then it sounds okay. How about warranties?
$6k in panels, $2-3k for inverter(s). how old is the roof?
>Seems keeping them at .13c isnt that bad.

As much as I don't like PPAs, that is a good deal. If I understand the math correctly it is $3 per Watt. I realize most deals at that gross price get a benefit of the tax credit but you are getting no extra for the time value of paying over time.
Also remember that what you’ve already paid is a sunk cost. You’re deciding between keeping them at 13 cents per kWh until 2037 or returning them and buying power from the grid over that 13-year period. The questions are mainly 1) are you using all the power your panels generate or will you be paying for power you don’t need, and 2) do you think the retail cost per kWh will drop down to 13 cents or below between now and 2037. If #1 is yes, I’d feel 100% comfortable going for it since I don’t think #2 is likely. If it’s no, then you need to do some math—but still guessing you come out ahead keeping them with an NEM 2.0 system.
Where would I be able to source panels that are compatible with my current Sunpower system? Does there need to be some compatibility? Or any panels added to the system will work?
Ended up getting the annual 2.9% increase waived to 0% and a 25% off the rate modification agreement.
You find the specs on your inverter. It has a voltage range you need to stay in with your panel config. You can look under the current panels to see what the voltage is for each panel.
That is a terrific deal—good job!
Google reviews are worthless because listings are sponsored.  Even when they're not fake, a business with almost nothing but 1-star reviews still averages to 3.5 stars.
Then why are so many of them not 5 stars?
Average Sunnova behavior.
You should look up their public q3 report and current z-score report… freaking wow.
It wouldn't surprise me. I think other "installers" have done the same. Not sure if they faced consequences but when I was in the process of dumping my original installer/ admin I read a lot about them creating fake ratings/reviews.
If you visit [Sunnova's Google Business Profile](https://www.google.com/search?q=sunnova+energy+houston+tx&oq=sunn&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUqDggBEEUYJxg7GIAEGIoFMgYIABBFGDwyDggBEEUYJxg7GIAEGIoFMg4IAhBFGCcYOxiABBiKBTIGCAMQRRg7MgYIBBBFGEEyBggFEEUYPDIGCAYQRRg9MgYIBxBFGDzSAQgyOTEzajBqN6gCALACAA&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8#lrd=0x8640c0fc348b9ef5:0xdebba0b6f935df46,1,,,,) right now you and sort by "Newest" reviews then you can actively watch how Sunnova is posting fake 5-star reviews minute by minute to their business profile page in order to inflate their ratings and mislead consumers.

Reviews can be removed from Google if enough users report them.
Google reviews are borderline useless. They do little to no moderation. None that make a difference at least.
lol Sunnova has always been great to work with. Maybe consider this: they just have a reviews department that reaches out to customers in bulk and asks them about their experience and if they could leave a review on their experience. When you do something like that and have over 350,000 customers, yeah you probably get a batch of people leaving reviews. Doesn’t mean they’re not real.
That's crazy.

Use EnergySage instead for finding solar installers.  They vet and rank installers.
Quick question , What is wrong with sunnova?!
Everbright is the goat.
It's a common tactic when posting fake reviews to sprinkle in "bad" reviews when spamming fake "good" reviews so that you're less likely to get flagged.
What does this mean?
Looks like they were deleted. I'm not seeing them
They also have active campaigns to trash other solar companies.
We bought a new home this summer and Sunnova was the solar contractor. They have yet to activate the system despite being well past their 90 day post-closing window. 

At this point I’m calling 1-2x a week and it’s the same excuse every time - they’re waiting for PTO from the utility. They always take our info and email the interconnection department for an update, but not once has that actually gotten us a meaningful update. 

So I called the utility. Turns out Sunnova has not provided all the required documents. Sunnova now is blaming the builder. 

I don’t know if it’s the builder or Sunnova’s fault in the end but they are definitely not being proactive and the communication sucks.
They are in deep financial doo doo.
Ohh , and can I ask u who was the solar installer ?! Coz usually the PTO is granted once the interconnection documents along with the plans are submitted then there will be a inspection from the utility and then the PTO is granted if the panels are already in your house then try to contact your Concierge Agent.
This is what happens when you outsource all of your departments.
Sunnova is the contractor/installer. It’s a new construction house so everything was installed before we closed. The only contact we have is their new home department. 

They said the window for PTO & Activation with SCE was 90 days from close which is well past.
Ouch, lucky no one was standing under that when it crashed through

I recommend [Alpine SnowGuards snow retention system](https://www.alpinesnowguards.com/roof-type/solar-panels)

Here’s a job I installed with the Snow Dogs only 

https://imgur.com/a/qUfixLd
We have the same in Upstate NY, nothing in the drop zone but some bushes (and our front steps). I have mixed feelings about using snow guards as I would like the snow to clear the panels ASAP, but I do worry about possible damage, or injury when we get a much of snow and then a resulting avalanche.
Crushed a metal shed this way last year.  About a foot of compacted snow came down off the second story.  Ripped right through the roof of the shed.

Good news was, production picked up after that
Wow, sorry that sucks. I'm in the industry but I'm in Virginia Beach so haven't seen anything like this before
Big snows come down with a mighty thud.  Ours dumps onto our attached garage and yard. It shakes the house when it hits the garage.  It makes an intimidating sound when it lands a story plus further down on the ground!

The panels produce power faster this way though :)
I lost a nice patio table to this once.
Going forward, Get some snow guards on the upper roof. They stop avalanches so this won’t happen again. We use alpine snow guards.
What was your pitch of your roof
Yeah, after getting our solar installed we were in our first winter after a large wet snow. The house suddenly felt like it was shaking with a sound like a roar and it was just all of the snow letting go all at.once. It was terrifying and made me think that I need to put up a sign on my front walkway warning folks to not walk there.
After our first winter with solar, which was super mild here in CT, I had snow guards installed. I've encouraged others I've messaged to get them. 

We live on a hill in a 2 story colonial, a house length deck which runs from a few feet off the ground to a story off the ground. We enter and exit the back door multiple times a day with our dogs. There is a LOT of snow that build up even with a smaller, 4 - 6" snowfall, with an 8 inch snowfall - wow! We didn't have any heavy snows last year; as stated it was super mild. But man, that snow is dangerous. Would definitely kill or severely harm one of our dogs. I imagine serious injuries to a human if they happened to be out there and some came crashing down. I would go around slamming the back doors and sliders to get it to fall - it does sound scary and yes, you feel it in the house when that snow falls. I think it was here that I read of a homeowner whose car was totaled when the snow from his garage fell on his car; I believe it after seeing this last year. 

Fresh snow weighs what 10 or so lbs a square foot with wet snow weighing far more, maybe even double. How many square feet of panels? And when that let's go, builds up momentum and speed, it is amazing.

Snow guards were not terribly expensive but would have been far cheaper if installed WITH the solar panels. My understanding is that they simply break up the avalanche so it's not the massive dump; maybe a bunch of smaller dumps? We shall see this year. 

Sorry for your damage, glad no one was hurt!
Thanks for sharing this!  I’m in the planning phase and you put this on my radar.  In PA.
yes, also ripped a satellite dish off the roof and it’s now dangling by a wire. I’m going to have to see what my options are with my solar provider. We had a bit of a falling out as they installed a 12.5 kW system instead of the 14.5 kW system we agreed on and didn't tell me (and still tried to invoice me for the 14.5kw).
Never seen those before, can they be added to an existing system easily or do all the panels have to be adjusted to install them?
Consider an angled guard in the shape of a chevron over the front steps. It shouldn't hold back too much snow and it will save someone's bacon if they happen to be on the steps at the wrong time. It should also help reduce shoveling.
yes. I had this vision of snow gently melting off the panels, however my illusions are now as shattered as my gazebo....
Same thing for me in MN, it makes us all jump in the house!!
Same here in NH. Solar panels are mounted about 12" up from the eave. It's an avalanche when it lets go. Most of it overshoots a lower 4' wide roof.
I'm going to have to think about it.  We get a lot of snow where I am, and it's not unheard of to get 30-40inches in a single storm, and I'm not convinced the snow guards wouldn't risk too much excess weight build up on the roof.
Good question. About 7/12 or 8/12 based on my guesstimate. I never thought about it.
Like the OP, You too should look into snow guards. We install them often. And in one town we work, the inspector requires them even though code does not require them.
There needs to be a little gap in between the panels instead of them butted together. Technically there should already be a gap there for thermal expansion but few installers take that into consideration during the initial install.
Wow. Yeah, the melting will start to happen at the surface of the panel so this makes sense. Man that would've really sucked if it landed on a person.
Yeah, the first one was an shock. After 4 years we are pretty used to it. 
I haven't needed to beef up the rafters yet though, so that's good.  I did have to re-grade the yard though :o  gotta keep that melt water going away from the house ;)
Have a structural engineer evaluate the roof above the solar. If your house is up to code, it will handle the local snow loads. Where we live, If it’s not up to code, then the solar installer is responsible for bringing the roof structure up to code.  Code generally assumes a non slippery roof where snow will pile up. When solar panels are added, the engineer takes credit for snow sliding off.
I have an A frame and got solar this summer. Last winter we had up to 4 feet of snow on the roof. I’m guessing I’m in for a stressful winter after reading this post.
How important is it for them to be there. Or better worded, how much damage can it cause by not having it?
The things you don’t think about, am I right?
Nice, I'm in Virginia beach as well and work in the industry
Yes, you just have a pair of DC connectors that only fit one way (assuming you get the same or equivalent panel naturally).
Turn system off. Set ladder up. Secure the ladder. Loosen 4 black bolts in clamps touching neighboring panels. Unplug. And repeat in reverse order. Strongly recommend a second person help with the ladder and getting the panel to you on the roof.
I don’t think it’s been mentioned yet- make sure you buy an MC4 disconnect tool along with the panel. You’ll also need a socket set and some zip ties.
If you are worried about stability, you can always take the panel off above it and use those rails under it. Your roof pitch isn’t bad, but I will do this on steep roofs when I don’t have a second person.
Is that firewood for sale?
Sure, 5 minute job
Never having seen an array up close, how easy is it to reach the screws/bolts underneath (especially if the array has multiple rows)?
Golf ball?
I run troubleshooting for my company, and we've swapped a number of panels for various reasons (bypass diode, squirrels, tree branches, etc) and sometimes the panel manufacturer is willing to replace the module free of charge depending on the circumstances. Being as it's winter, you might not lose too much power if you're willing to wait ask your installer to check it out/get a replacement.
UPDATE: I’ve heard back from the installer and they think they might be able to get it covered somehow, so we shall see, I would have to buy a minimum of 6 panels from most of the places online and none are close to me so it might just pay to have them fix it even if it’s not covered….stay tuned
Plug and play very easy. They're bigger than you think tho. You'll need a helper and be careful of wind
wouldn't that be covered by your insurance?
Howdy,

Just make sure the panel you replace it with it the same size (give or take a cm or two) ESPECIALLY the frame, make sure whatever panel you get to replace it has the same frame thickness.
Before you buy a new panel, ask the company if you’re under warranty. All they need is the serial number
It’s pretty simple just shut off breakers at combiner box and disconnect switches. The connector you’ll be dealing with is called MC4. A pair of needle nose pliars wil work to loosen the latches. Take the bolts completely out of one side then loosen the other, tilt panel up. You’ll need another person to help you. Getting the wire to not hang will be a bitch unless panel frame clips or low tension zip ties are used. One thing to keep in mind is if you do the work you’ll void the warranty, but if the company has gone under you can disregard that.
I’m not a pro, but how worried should OP be about potential micro cracks in the neighboring panels?
I would buy the same panel, that’s why I figured it would be plug and play
> Loosen 4 black bolts in clamps touching neighboring panels.

Do you have any tips for making sure the panels on the left and right don't slide down and break after those four bolts get loosened? I can totally see myself on a fail video. Or should those two panels just stay put for long enough?
That’s a great idea, I’ll keep it in mind, that’s how they installed it, bottom row, then top
Oh that’s a story! I cut that down to get better exposure…took out part of my fence with it!
I assume you’re being sarcastic? Sorry,lots of people on Reddit are….no harm meant
It's an hour to two hours from start to finish but the bit on the roof could be 5 mins with the right tools.
If you look closely you can see bolts that hold the panels down on each side, pretty easy to undo, they showed it to me when they were installing it
Look at the wood pics, the long limb took it out
1k deductible! So I’m exploring options
From there it is totally plug and play.  All you'll need to do is unplug and remove the old panel, and then plug the new panel in and fasten it to the rails.  This should be done with the Solar breaker turned OFF (system de-energized), this last part is super important for safety!!
Since it’s a pretty much brand new system my goal is replace it with the exact panel, it’s a hanwha g-10 400, so it’s readily available
I asked, since it was a tree limb, I’m out of luck
You bring up a great point, and most places don’t want to ship 1 panel because of risk of damage so if I can’t get a pro to come and look at my panels (it’s been a challenge but only day1) I’m considering buying a few to save on shipping and have backup.
In that case, trivial if you are OK on a ladder and roof.
Don’t forget to get some MC4 disconnect tools. You’re gonna need those. 

Make sure your system is off when you change it. Turning the breaker off is all you need to do. 

Yes, it’s easy and plug and play. Hopefully your clamps come apart and back together nicely. Sometimes they stick and break depending on how long they’ve been up there. Maybe order a few of those just in case.
Those may be old panels.  The ones I’m putting in are 400watt.  They constantly outdated panels so finding an identical panel will probably be a challenge
The neighbour panels wont move (if fixed correctly)
They should have clamps on the opposite side to hold them place. It wouldn’t be a bad idea make sure they are snug before removing the involved ones. But you could have second person at the top of the ladder sliding the panel toward them. And you can re snug the two top clamps, then do the same with the bottom after panel is completely removed. I feel as if the opposite side clams should be enough to hold if you are replacing all in the same day. If not then you’d want to tighten down the ones from the panel you removed until new one came in.
No, 4 skrews, 2 plugs. If you reach it. The panel is plugged into the microinverter which is skrewed to the frame and doesn't need to be removed
nope easy job, hard part is finding the same panel. Just hope no bolts have seized.
Nah, super easy. Just find the dimensions out of your panels and [go here](https://a1solarstore.com/) and see if there's a warehouse near you and buy 1 panel that matches those dimensions.
It’s probably 5 minutes for someone who installs solar for a living like myself. Maybe like 15 minutes for a homeowner. I haven’t seen it mentioned yet, but that’s snap and rack. You’ll need a 1/2 inch socket for those clamps. One side you’ll just loosen, the other side you’ll completely take the mid apart (but don’t worry it’ll screw right back in when you’re done).
Oof I can see the outline where the stick hit now
Bastards
Yeah, that makes sense. I’d probably wait to place the order until you can get a professional out to confirm if any other damage was done, just to be sure of how many you need.
Yup, I’ve been on the roof before I had solar, otherwise I wouldn’t even consider it, I watched them do some of the install but that doesn’t mean I’m a pro! I just wasn’t sure if I was missing something
Thanks!
They were just installed in May, I’ve been able to find them around
That’s what I assumed, it was only installed in May, I can definitely reach it!
I found the panel online, most places have a minimum so that will be the challenge finding just 1 to buy.
They have it…$299!
Another question for you, if/when the panel gets wet is it going to be a problem?
My thoughts exactly!
Do you call the builder when a tree falls on it? No, you call your insurance company or pay out of pocket to replace it as OP suggests correctly!
It's literally that easy with enphase....not to mention the safety aspect!  Someone else said turn off the system - and that's sound advice in general but personally I wouldn't be worried, you have floating low voltage and insulated plug/sockets.  When you plug in the DC, the inverter should flash the LED while it starts up per the enphase docs. Some MC4 type connectors need a very hard push to mate properly - make sure you hear a pair of clicks as they lock.

Oh - there's a point - while I have a disconnect tool on my keyring, you probably don't.    Before you get up there and undo bolts and find you can't unplug the old panel, get a MC4 disconnect tool. It's the twin spike end of [this one for example](https://www.amazon.com.au/ZONADA-Wrenches-Connectors-Assembly-Connector/dp/B0BLZ6XN2M/ref=sr_1_16?crid=30DWESDUU3BV4&keywords=mc4+disconnect+tool+solar&qid=1701290604&sprefix=mc4+disconnect+tool+s%2Caps%2C287&sr=8-16).  You can use a small flat screwdriver or any number of similar things carefully.  If you run in to an installer or have one nearby, the tools [come in packs from enphase](https://enphase.com/store/accessories/accessories-microinverters/disconnect-tool-pack-10) and if it was me I'd hand one out if someone asked nicely.
Turn the AC breaker off first! Then turn the DC breakers off.
Look up how to use a zip tie to disconnect the MC-4 connectors. That has saved me more than once when I left it in the truck.
I updated my previous reply
Assuming the panel is brand new and if you are in the US, don't forget to claim a 30% tax credit on that $299 (I'd also claim it on the shipping too, but that's not super clearly allowed or disallowed).

The IRS might find it odd that you have such a low solar cost, but if you keep the receipts and are totally honest of what happened and what you did, you should be fine because the tax credit applies to the original installation of each solar panel--which this will be. 26 USC Section 25(e)(8)(A).
for $299 I'd just keep the old one until you replace the whole set.
That will likely be the panel's death sentence since water will be able to get to the bus bars, but, there's only 1 way to find out for sure. If it does break it won't damage your micro though.
Call the builder too while we’re at it
Good to know that! I’m all about getting the right tools!
Me to about being sarcastic….
Didn’t think of that! We haven’t had the system long enough to claim the first 30%
I’ll know Friday! Will it affect the rest of my system or will the inverter just not transfer power
If you have a 3d printer, you can just print this one and it works a treat.

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1418822/
If you're only removing 2 connectors, a set of needle nose will be okay as long as you're not an ape with them.

Snap n rack uses 1/2" hardware. Use an impact for those, not a normal drill.

Not a bad roof to test out your abilities on! And yeah, you can leave the system on with no issues. I've been on the phone with Enphase customer service and they had requested I do microonverter tests on the roof with the system on. No real inherent safety issues unless you stick the connector in your mouth and lick it.
A zip tie will work as a disconnect tool as well. But PLEASE turn the system off first. There could be an arc flash if the system is on and exposed to sunlight. Generally these are “relatively” small on a microinverter system, but it may be enough to surprise your ass to the ground.
You can also 3d print them! I did that!

https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:3515396/files
No problem. Good luck replacing it!
Oh, then just add the $299 to what you will claim in your 2023 taxes. That's easier and less likely to raise red flags at the IRS.
That's the beauty of micros, it'll only affect that one.
I will say it can be tricky to get those 4 mid-clamps off and back on without space on either side. The panels should be pushed together tightly so reinstalling the panel you might need something to use as leverage to help get the clamp back in.
Lmao
I wouldn’t think of touching it without powering it down..thanks
Thank you!
Thanks !
Sweet! Thanks
Have you tried calling these local installers or just searched for them online? A lot of installers do roof and ground mount, even if they don’t advertise ground mounts.
If you decide to go with a ground mount (GM) array, I suggest you strongly consider bifacial panels. I live south of Binghamton, NY and have a 24kW GM system installed 10/22. My first year's production exceeded pvwatts and installer estimates by 15%. I'm pretty sure this higher yield is coming from albedo radiation and absorption from the backside panel. GM installation is more complication and costly. The installers initially attempted pounding the galvanized steel vertical rails but failed to achieve the required 7' depth due to the rocky soil.   They finally set the rails in concrete. My installed cost with 450 bifacial Canadian Solar panels  and  SMA 7.7 string inverters. My installed cost before tax credits was $3.11/watt.
Try PlugPV
Try sending a message to Engineer775 on YT.  He's based down south but MAYBE he knows of installers in your area who do ground mount systems.
Buy the set from the other guy here who couldn't find a installer!

https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/s/gW4pvnulca

Diy a wooden frame
residential ground mounts are pretty much a pain in the butt for most installers, They are not super difficult but do require dirt work and often multiple trips to site so they create issues when people are not used to those types of projects.

trenching and footing inspections usually add a day at least, plus if you have to set the poles in concrete that usually means you have to come back on multiple days. 

I would keep calling local installers, someone has to do it.
Build a car port/storage/gazebo and use solar panels as the roof
Thanks for the tips all - I have a lot more research to do.
Dude, build it yourself.

I’m not even that intelligent and I built a 24kW ground mount system.
Call solar foundations. I think they cover NY.
I've mostly been doing research on their web offerings... everything seems solely roof focused.
Damn bro, I just finished my ground mount 24kW system in Louisiana.  460w BlueSun.
Been having shitty weather so my output is funky
Thanks!
Start making some phone calls
It will be interesting to compare our 24kW systems. Are your 460 BlueSun's bifacial? I'm sure you will out perform me we have lots of cloudy weather. Today was the first day we've seen the sun in December!
Yea, but I don’t think I’ll get much albedo on the back side.  There’s only a 6ft gap between my fence and the back side of the panels.
https://www.reddit.com/r/SolarDIY/s/CknMT2xMea
Looks great. The vent stack brigade is going to march on you when they wake up, though.
Looks good. What inverter(s) did you pair your panels with?
Nice!
Love it!
Looks good, cutting it close to the gutter on that large array.  There is a horror story or two to tell about getting too close to that.  They have a full shingle row of space b/w should be good.
Share cost  please Ty
I pay 10k for 13 modules 400W, 5kW Inverter and 6kWh battery
You’re getting ripped off… I own a solar company out in Sacramento, we should chat 🤙
Why do you want to do this? This will never achieve a financial ROI on the new NEM3 rules.
Are you with PG&E? 

If not, check your utility's net metering program to see if it's 1:1.

If you're with PG&E, you might want to hold on getting solar. In addition to NEM3.0, fixed charge is on its way. We don't know what's the price for that yet, but it will play a big role in your ROI.
I’m always astounded when people in Ca even consider getting solar when Ca is clearly anti solar with most of their utilities solar rate structure which gives solar adopters a big middle finger.

I thank god that I’m in an area of NC that has an electric cooperative that still does 1-1 net metering and buys power from a nuclear power plant.

My bill is $37 a month year round with a 3,600 sf house and two electric cars.
I paid 1000 usd for a 1000kw solar facility. It’s called solar thermal. Simply get a few thousand feet of aluminum foil and use it as a mirror to reflect light at a boiler
That battery cost seems ridiculous
What state? Seems high on the solar it’s over $3watt
If these are cash prices they are way too high
Realized the quote was missing microinverters -> Enphase IQ8A-72-2-US - 16x of them
Keep shopping they are high….
I’m nearby but not in SF proper.  17 kW in solar, 30 kWh battery for $77k.  IQ8M inverters and 5P batteries.  Your quote looks really high, but I definitely saw some in that range.
This is so expensive for a 6k system you could pay like 5k max here
In SF?
Have you installed solar in SF? Worked through permitting and such? 

Should have mentioned these costs include labor, all permits as well, if that makes any difference.
Would love to offset the gradually (or less gradually so) rising power rates. Would be great if a new wave of incentives were brought to market post NEM 3.0, but who knows what’ll happen post elections next year.
PG&E delivers our power, but SFCleanPower generates it - what do you mean by 1:1?

Understand it’s a big unknown what and IF the new rates will be the proposed minimum baseline.
San Francisco.

Probably high permitting costs. Probably can't park near the house. Probably take an hour each way to get to the job site. Employee costs will be high.

SF is a big pain the butt to work in.
5p battery cost should be $8k for 1, $11k for 2

PV should be ~$21k
Not sience fiction, in germany
Yes we have and yes these prices include all the permits and labor
Once we do a Site Audit there may be additional costs such as re-running circuits but the equipment should be much cheaper. Sent you a chat
1:1 means the utility will reimburse you at the same rate it charges you for electricity
As far as we know, the fixed charge is gonna be income based. The law has already passed, just don't know how much is it for each tier. So unless you're making close to minimum wage, otherwise it is most likely there'll be an increase in your bill.
I am in Texas and it is NOT required to tell your homeowners insurance that you've installed panels. I wanted to make sure that they were covered so I willingly provided them that information and they just increased the amount of coverage I had by 40 or 50 k.
Shortly after PTO our county property accessor required some basic data about the solar install to close out the building permit….after filling out the forms we notified our insurance agent and they said thanks for letting us know (there was no change in premiums if that’s what you’re asking).

E: Northern California
Midwest, it's usually just noted on your file, or until your homeowner contract renews you might get an ammendment and pay a little extra depending on insurance company.
I did at the same time I told them we got a new roof.  They asked how many and that was it.  No change in premium for the panels but the new roof got my a decent discount.

I think it would be best to let them know, in case of storm damage, you'd want them covered.
The answer will be regional. You should add your location.
NY Westchester County.   I asked my broker and he said it’s covered in my current policy.
I called AAA here in Southern California and asked about this and the rep told me they only needed to have a receipt from the installer.  She didn't have any concerns and didn't think it would impact my rates much.
My policy , specifically the extended replacement rider , required me to notify them of any improvements that increase value 5k or more. I would read your policy and see if you have a similar requirement as each company likely has somewhat different wording.
What's the reason not to?

If the house burns down I wouldn't want to be out the $30k it would cost to *replace* it.  Since you don't get the tax credit a second time, it would be full-fare.  Just raise your total coverage by the replacement cost and it shouldn't be a significant difference
My 16 panels set me back $40/year w/ AAA in SoCal.
Depends on area. I can tell you in Tennessee they specifically ask about solar panels. When we bought our house, they asked if we had panels and if we planned on adding they need to know once it's ready to go.
Not sure why you wouldn't want to. For one thing, the expense of replacing a system would be high. For another, if the system had an issue and happened to cause damage to your property - you'd be screwed. 

My solar + battery did not affect my insurance rate nor my property taxes.
Yup.  In this boat now, waiting on replacement after a hail storm.  Would seem to be a fairly cheap and simple job since the wiring and inverter isn't going to change, but the panels are larger these days and there are also the removal and disposal costs added to it.

And same - no change to our rates or property tax.  Wisconsin, FWIW.
I pair REC Alpha 410 with Enphase IQ8A all the time
REC Alpha R series (note the R) are not compatible with the 8 series micros due to the higher panel voltage, you would need the IQ7X (they do not have an 8X yet), IMO you want an 8 series micro so don’t get that R series panel, get the regular Alpha
400 and 410 work great with iq8+.   470 is to big and will need IQ8A.

Did he give you any reason for said incompatibilities?   What inverters is he/she suggesting instead.


Also might be good to share full quote.   Less than $2 per kwh in the US is suspiciously cheap
You can [go here](https://enphase.com/installers/microinverters/calculator) and put in the make and model of the panel and Enphase will tell you if it's compatible or not. There are certain specs about some panels that will make them not work with certain inverter models.
He is lying.  We sell REC 410s with IQ 8+ and IQ 8A (depending on how much shade there is) every day.  It’s one of our standard offerings.
Easily explained:

REC Alpha Pure **-R** are not compatible with any IQ8 model.  The **-R** is the important part, other REC Alpha models are just fine.

Crap marketing to have a small change in the naming mean a totally different panel IMHO.

So you will find the quotes you have with "REC" and IQ8 are not **-R** panels, but standard REC Alpha etc.

Search this sub for [Pure-R and IQ7X ....](https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/search/?q=pure-r%20iq7x&restrict_sr=1)
Thank you for this confirmation!
No reasons, just said unable to quote due to incompatibilities. I was quoted 41 x 400 Hyperion w/ 41 x IQ8M for $31k. Price was very competitive but I was torn by the messaging.
Thank you so much for this information--which proves this company did not know what they were talking about and it is not someone I would want to work with for our solar system setup.
Thanks, I'm guessing for those who do not research this company presents a low price with whatever brand of panels on hand--and no options for any other set ups. I've decided this is not a company I wish to work with.
Thank you so much for this confirmation, I am definitely going to do some more research before jumping. Good to know I should be ruling out this company.
Price is almost too competitive.     I wonder if there is some funny math going on.   Is the $31k after the tax credit?   Iq8M will have less clipping so if you are getting a free upgrade, why not
>Good to know I should be ruling out this company.

I don't know if it's that straightforward - you said you've been told "REC" panels are not compatible by one company but "REC" are compatible by another, and lots of other commenters are saying "REC" work fine.

The thing is, "REC" is not all the same thing.  Someone could be talking REC Alpha Pure, and someone else about REC Aplha Pure **-R**, and they would both be correct.

All i'm saying is make sure you are reading the quotes carefully for the exact panel model - both companies could be correct and no one doing anything dirty here.  You can also call enphase support and forward a quote or tell them the exact model over the phone and they will tell you.

On the other hand, this industry is full of shitbags so it totally could be malicious deception  :-)
Agreed, that $31K clearly outlined as BEFORE the tax credit--shows the estimated updated costs after the credit. I was honestly concerned about the panels and thought with RECs name and reputation it'd be a safer bet. Is it worth having more discussions in your opinion?
Re-read the tax code - that USA made credit is for commercial systems - correct me if I am wrong. Are both companies quoting you for cash systems? Go with the largest system you can afford to cover your use - your use may only go up. Don't go overboard, doesn't make since to overbuild because there is no get rich scheme that works with solar.

I have Q-cells. You'd probably need to give more info on your system to get opinions....
You are correct about the 10% for domestic content - commercial or non-profit only.
Both quotes are cash. The difference is small, and the cost is not a factor in this general price range (though obviously I'm going to lean to the cheaper of the 2). I'll also say that it is a bit concerning if the C1 salesman give me incorrect info on the commercial credit.

As mentioned, I did just have my insulation re-done, which will almost certainly drop my usage next year though I could not say by how much. With my house using 14k kwh last year, I baked in about a 10% reduction to get to the 12.5-13k range. Are you saying I should be even more conservative than that or are you saying I should aim high because my usage figures to increase over time?

More specific on the 2 systems:

C1:

Qcells QJPEAK DUO BLK ML-610+ 400  
Enphase IQ8M-72-2-US  


C2:  
Meyer Burger Black 380  
Enphase IQ8PLUS-72-2-US
Thanks for the info
You could probly get away with it. If it were me that’s what I’d do. 

I’m in this business long time.  I know of a house that has 30kW of inverter capacity on a 25kW interconnection application. AND on a 25 kW transformer. Runs fine 5 years out. How bout that. 

1kW at 240v is a whopping 4-5 amps.  Not likely to move any needle much.
If you're capable of doing it yourself then there's no need to pull a permit. If you're paying someone to do this job for you then yes, you'll have to pull a permit.  
I am curious since I am in Fort Worth, where are you sourcing your 2-3 panels? I'll be adding 8-12 more panels before summer time and I'd like to avoid paying $200-$400 in shipping costs if possible.
Only if you tell them.
In NY, you need a permit to flip the light switch.   Adding to your distributed energy generation facility on top of your house?  Yes.   Utility will want you to update your interconnect agreement too if you are increasing the AC inverter output.
Amen to the city of Dallas being trash with permits and inspections
Sounds like a "homeowner repair" to me. /s

Consequences > Gains
It's pretty safe to say yes. There's not a lot of leeway for this kind of thing, when electricity is involved. You might also need to file some new paperwork with your power company.
Building permit is the least of it…you are increasing capacity which requires utility approval
If you were in California, that would be a yes, and if you were on nem 2, you would then get bumped to nem 3. Great huh?
Yes, you do.
General rule of thumb w/r/t AHJs and utilities is......fuck em.  They add no value, impede progress, and their policies are based on neanderthal intellect.
Have not sourced them yet, but there is a distributor over in Plano that apparently caters to DIY people that I was told may sell single panels. I may only want/need to add about 2-3 panels. I will try to see if I can find their contact info.
This is inaccurate.   Even if you do the work yourself you legally are still required to pull a permit AND required to update your PTO.


Now if you don't pull a permit, will anybody notice?   Probably not.   But I don't want to mislead anybody about the legality of it
Not if it’s just dc side. Not where I live at least.
Except in California adding 1kW to an existing NEM agreement is permitted. It may depend on the size of the panels.
So far i've found [A1 Solar](https://a1solarstore.com/) to be the best option. You may want to check them out too. If they have the right sized panel at a DFW store I'd just rent the Home Depot truck and pick them up.
I didn’t know that
Actually looks pretty reasonable to me.  Too many quotes lately have been straight up robbery.  


It's unfortunate that the majority of the panels are on the North side but looks like you are limited by your southern roof exposure.
One of the best quotes I have seen on here lately.
EmPower is a solid installer.  Knowledgeable consultants, too.
So it is $41k at 6.99 for 15 yrs for a 13kw system.  Those are part 1.  Part 2 is your correct monthly bill from utility that sounds like $55 so reasonable.
At that size and lending rate, that price is NOT crazy at $41k
 Lord, learn to screen shot
What model of panel is it? M420?
That’s really shitty placement, too north-facing. Might only be ok if you can get them to angle the mounts
Yea and I thought I would do better with my southern facing house
So like is the project not worth it because I need so many panels on the low exposure side?
After rebates the loan is 23,726 at 6.99
Oh man I know I’ll try to upload better pics
I know….I feel like if I had better sun I wouldn’t need as many panels
Hard to say without seeing how much sun that north side gets.  1/3rd of your panels will get really good sun.  On the north side they might get half or even less that so they added a lot of panels to make up for the location.  You will still benefit but probably going to take long to go positive on the investment because of the positioning.
Correct, but always compare prices before rebates. The exact same install 1 town or county over might have different rebates, the homeowner might not have taxable income to qualify for the 30% off, etc, but the same base cost for the same install should be apples to apples.
6.99% hurts....a lot.
Lightshot is a fantastic little app. Hot keys, screen selection editing, super easy to use.
Yea I still think it’s the right move, just stinks I’ll never see net metering… What I save on the bill pretty much goes towards the panel loan

Another question I have but haven’t asked my representative is what is the avg life of these panels? When I pay off my loan in 15 years will I be getting a few years off before I need another loan on brand new panels? How long do they last
It does but it’s a NYSERDA EFS Loan
Most are warranted to still produce 85% after 25 years so pretty good.
Yes I’ve been told there warranty is pretty good when it comes to that. So at some point I will need new panels and as long as nothing major changes in its designs they should just be able to order new panels and I wouldn’t need all the roof anchors and conduit ran?
Yep hopefully that would be the case but after 25 years you might need a new roof at the same time lol
Oh man how could I forget the roof 🙄
We are almost 51.  Not planning on staying in this house for 25 years
Despite how they might be branded or marketed solar panels do not have a specific constant voltage.  When tested under laboratory conditions they can determine what the maximum voltage may be during output and while in an open circuit and show those values on the back of the sticker, the actual voltage is going to constantly vary depending several factors. The most obvious being the amount of sunlight that is hitting the panel at any point in time.  But what happens when a cloud starts to shade a solar panel?  Does the voltage and amperage simply stop? Of course not, it gradually drops down both the amperage and voltage of the solar cells as the shade gradually increases.

Solar panels need another device to act as an intermediary between any kind of batteries or dc/ac inverters.   This device is called a "charge controller".  What it does is accept the voltage and power that is being produced by a solar panel array and converts into the desired voltage range for your system, whether that be 12 volt, 24, 48, etc.  

Your panel could be producing 170watts at 5 amps at 34v at one point in time, but if you have a mppt charge controller that is configured for 48 volts, it could be converting that electrical current and outputting outputting the same 170 w 51 volts and 3.33amps in order to charge the 48v battery.

  Even then, these numbers are really more of a guide for the target voltage of your system.    A typical 12v inverter will often run on voltages anywhere from 11 volts all the way up to 20 volts (you of course need to verify that on the product specs) but the point is they operate on a range of voltages, because they need to compensate for variations and changes in the overall system voltage.  

Batteries are very similar in that while a 48 volt battery is designed to have a voltage around 48 volts, in reality it will often be in a charged state with a voltage of around 51 volts.


There are many combination charge controllers that also have inverters built into them and use the same voltage, which simplifies a lot things in a system build.
Thanks for the detailed answer! 

I have a MPPT controller built in with the inverter. It has a PV input, an output for the batteries and then it has an AC output.
Southwest is fine, could even be a little better than south for production during peak usage hours. Add a few facing southeast if you want to boost morning production.
I’m straight W and E. I feel like yours would produce even better than ours and we are happy with ours.
To have a better idea.
Visit Google project  sunroof.

Type your address and the software will tell you which area is the best for panels.
Our back roof faces SSE and the few panels on the side roof over the garage (SW) perform really well compared to to others.
You could easily do SW/NE. The generation will be good. 

Should be able to find out a decent estimate using a simulator.
Yup, where’s the electrical panel?
It is what it is.  As long as the sun isn't blocked, most any roof direction is fine.  Some are just a little better than others.
with the majority of your roof facing SW, it will produce the most electricity in the afternoon and evening, (and thats when people use the most electricity).

&#x200B;

put the majority of the panels on the SW facing roof and a few on the small portion of the roof that faces SE.
Same as mine (mine is worse due to neighbours roof joint ours, can’t seem to add photo) and I’m getting 13 panels installed. 7 on main roof nne side and 3 on each stubby bit.
Thanks but this seems to be US/PR only
If you mean the meter, it's on the left side/outside the house
Ahhh apologies for that! Yes unfortunately that only works for US/PR territory.

I'm case, try to fit the modules in the south/west roof.
In this orientation this is where you will get the most form the solar window.

As a reference, in the afternoon all the Solar Energy concentrates towards the west.
That meter is not your property it's the pocos call them if you think it has an issue. 

If your inverter is outputting power is still flowing you can review your bill for production credits. It's very possible that the display died or is just very hard to read and the smarts are still working just fine.
That meter is labeled as a Distributed Generation meter and may not be owned by utility..
That looks like a separate production meter. Unless it was required by utility it most likely was put there by the installer to monitor solar production.
I wouldn't be so quick to blame the power company. Honestly your installer looks worse at this point. Judging by their level of incompetence, any of the numbers coming from your solar equipment could be false—so the power company may not be wrong after all.

The best thing to rely on right now would probably be the Emporia system. Did you set it up to measure solar as well?

In any case, you should get your installer back out in order to completely fix the CT issues and get your batteries working.
Tesla gateways come with CTs preinstalled. As long as they are not super old. That ct needs to be activated in the app. Used to commission the system. I usually don’t add cts to my envoy/Tesla combo installs because Tesla has it already. It should be able to be turned on. You can call Tesla hotline and they can usually do it if you can provide ur site details.
Sounds to me like a case of a poor installation company… unfortunately many of them in Florida currently.
>but the power company is saying I used 20 & 25 kWh ABOVE what I generated respectively on those 2 days. There's simply *NO* way I could have used 80kWh of power over a 2 day period with 1 hour of A/C usage.

Your production is being counted as consumption, sounds like.
It’s not your power company, it’s the solar installer and designer.
Are you sure that everything goes through the meter? If only one circuit is tapped somewhere before the meter you'll have readings like that.
Out of curiosity, where are you located?
Sunday - consumption vs. production should have been me pulling 11.7kWh from the power company. They show I pulled 38.36kWh.

Yesterday - consumption vs. production should have been me pulling \***negative**\* 6.6kWh from the grid. They show I pulled 33.6kWh

From the time I called the power company @ 2PM through the end of the day (when I was closely monitoring), my consumption and my production numbers matched up correctly with their meter. Something very suspect is going on.
Have the meter replaced! Had similar issues, Tesla app would randomly say we were using about 10 to 15 kWh with everything in the house off or consumption would randomly mirror solar production. Spent months calling Tesla and sce, both blaming each other. sce sent a tech who told me my meter was past its reliable life they replaced it and no issues in the last year and a half.
If the power company numbers match the meter, it absolutely isn’t the power companies issue. Just to confirm, you did have a net meter installed, right? Otherwise both usage and generation could be showing as usage.
Although, since talking to the power company about it late this morning, the numbers have lined up.
First -  I agree, the solar company is at least as much at fault, maybe more. Getting them back out to fix is already in progress. Supposedly, they need a part. 
2nd - from what I read in the install guide, I have to install the mains transformers between the Meter and Inverter - I don't have physical access to that & had to install them at the main breaker.
I just got off the phone with Tesla. AMAZING support. She said my gateway needs the "Solar CT" installed, but that it should have come with it. She said she was going to send an email with all the details in case the installer has questions when he comes back out. 
Thanks again for the tip!
Thanks! I'll try that in the morning.
I don't disagree.
i agree this happens is it a smart meter and or is you bill being estimated by the power company somtimes they dnt even get a reading from the meter 4 months
It's not. The Meter shows the amount pulled from the grid and the amount sent to the grid. Over the course of 2 weeks I've sent back almost 400 kWh - but no visibility into what I consumed over that time. Only what the power company says I pulled from the grid. 
Since I started looking today it was accurate hour by hour. For yesterday (1st full day of data), they show almost 12kWh more pulled from the grid than  it should have been.
I think it's both.
Not exactly sure what you mean. "through the meter" how? I'm measuring my consumption at the panel.  
I also wouldn't know where/how I would check that.
St. Pete FLORIDA
Sounds good... but it's a brand new install.  I'm not positive, but IIRC, they changed out the meter less than 2 years ago - they said all they had to do was update the firmware to turn it to net-metering.

It's still a possibility, but I don't think the meter is the culprit.  I'm still collecting data, and watching it \*MUCH\* more closely now, so we'll see what happens.  I know this is very "conspiracy theory" of me, but I really feel like now that they know I'm paying attention, it will suddenly start reporting correctly.  But I could be wrong.

At this point, the plausible deniability is in the fact that the installer didn't do everything correctly, and I have no visibility into previous consumption (before installing the Emporia monitor in my box) so EC can just say "*well, that's all they sent back to the grid, and you pulled from the grid what we are telling you you pulled*"
I do have a net meter installed. I don't have any way to know if the power company #s match the Meter. 
The power company doesn't know my actual usage. They only know what they say I sent to them and what I pulled from them. They don't know the total of what my house is using and they don't know what my system is producing.
My power monitor and the power bill doesnt always line up either. Some days will be more or less than what i recorded. The overall month the power company records is usually 1-200kwh higher. Cant really say anything cuz they will say its my monitor that is wrong, which it could be. And the $ difference could be 5-25$ a month.
For example, your main meter is exactly at the perimeter (electrical) of your home. Nothing in your home is connected before the meter, so all consumption is going through the meter. If you connect something before the meter it will not register but you'll have unlimited power/energy (don't do this, it's highly illegal everywhere!!!)

Now, you have one more meter, located at the solar plant. That meter has "before" at the panel side. Behind is your home, the main electrical meter and the Grid.
If you have consumers connected before the meter they can spend all the generated energy and the meter will register nothing.
The two meters will never agree exactly 100% (more likely up to 0.5-1% difference) but all the numbers together should make sense. If the meters doesn't agree then one of the meters is not good, is not connected properly, or something is taking power where it's not measured.
Was that Voltage Pro in St. Petersburg?  I've heard some recent bad reviews on them and newer owner Brenda.
If the utility is saying you used 25kwhr more than what you generated it’s definitely the utility meter. Part of getting pto is getting your utility meter swapped (or updated in your case). You should be hounding the utility until this happens. An easy test is to turn everything off in your house and wait about 10-15 minutes while the sun is out and see what the utility meter does.
I can look at hourly, daily and monthly power use data by looking it to my power companies app.  Your power company might have the same capabilities. My daily data is delayed by 3 days. It seems you have confirmed proper function of the power companies meter.  In the end that is what matters money wise. For what it’s worth—- I was informed as my install was being finished up that if I operated the solar system before the meter was changed out that I would be billed for production and consumption. Once my meter was physically changed to a different on I could run the system and be credited for over production.  How do things look in the enphase app?
Once everything is (finally) installed properly, I should have the consumption monitored via the Tesla Gateway, *AND* the Enphase (inverter network) app, *AND* the Emporia hardware & app that I installed. If all three of them are in agreement, and the power company STILL charges me 200kWh more over the course of the month, I may have to consult a lawyer. 
$300/ year isn't a huge deal to my single household financially, but it isn't insignificant - and it's most certainly fraud. 
1,000,000 customers at $300/year over charge each.... an extra $300,000,000 per year for nothing? That's a lot of politicians they can pay off.
No, it was "Solar Energy World".
On some aspects they've been pretty good and others VERY bad.
The meter is the correct meter/update and is showing total power pulled from the grid, and another reading showing total power sent back to the grid.

It seems as though the previous days number on the website does not account for any overages or any power you sent to the grid  - it only shows the amount pulled from the grid (at night for instance).

So, hopefully my ire is misplaced. I'll find out at the 1st billing cycle.
The power company (and meter) display how many kWh my system sends to the grid, and how many kWh they send to the house.  I can see the TOTAL number since the beginning of my meter for both readings on the meter. On the company website, they display only what they assert that I pulled from the grid. Which is why I know something isn't right. On one particular day, the PC told me I pulled 25 kWh \*MORE\* from the grid than I sent to the grid. On that day, Enphase said I produced over 55 kWh - basic math says that my total "consumption" for that day was 80 kWh on a day that my A/C didn't even turn on. My total consumption for that day in actuality was probably about 30 - 35 kWh. - so basically, they've been charging me for the hours I've sent back and the hours I received - I think that's basically what you just said you were informed would happen if you turned on early.  I didn't turn on early, but I bet that's exactly what they've been doing. Especially considering that the moment I asked them about it, all of a sudden my numbers started matching their numbers.

Wish me luck getting them to admit that.
The utility company's meter has final say on net usage.  If you think something ia wrong you will have to prove it and even the enphase/Emporia measurements can be off.  My enphase is off vs my utility meter readings by 7-9%.
It seems like since the power company meter is recording the overproduction and consumption correctly that there is a record there and that the power company reads that meter so things will probably work themselves out in the first billing cycle.  Maybe the Tesla battery charged itself up and that is some of the extra consumption.  I dont have consumption metering on my enphase side of things and that makes it substantially more difficult to know where I’m at on days where there is good solar production but also using the heat pump a lot.  Hope getting your battery all set up goes smoothly.
7-9% is too much. Hell, I can eyeball my consumption that accurately. Even the crappiest eBay meter will measure with better tolerances.
Either your installation is wrong, or one of the two meters is faulty. You can send your own meter for calibration, then use that as a leverage if the values doesn't compare after that.
My Enphase numbers run within 1% of utility's readings. Basically rounding errors. My utility has numbers in 15 minute increments which also match my Enphase numbers. Wouldn't be unreasonable to expect it to be more accurate.
Are your Enphase measurements that far off of your Emporia measurements and vice versa? Or are both of them just off of the power company measurement?
After speaking with the PC, I think you are (hopefully) correct in that it will work itself out after the 1st billing cycle.

It looks like they are showing my consumption and overproduction on the meter, but only showing my consumption on their website - and will "true-up" the delta at the end of the billing cycle each month.

Hopefully that's the case.
That's what I would have thought as well.

There's no way my house consumed 20 and 25 kWh \*ABOVE\* the 57 and 55 kWh production days last week when my A/C ran a total of 60 minutes over the entire spread.

But I can't see what I sent back to the grid on those days - I can only see what the utility says that I pulled from the grid (I didn't read the meter myself on those days).
Dont have a secondary CT just one for consumption and one for production.  It matters where they are installed.  For the longest time over year mine was not getting accurate measurements due to interference.  The enphase tech cam out aboit 4-5 times finally moved out the production line plus noise filter to its own seperate conduit plus enclosure and i finally got close enough readings aka off by 7-9% vs utility meter.
Probably, but there was a guy on the Enphase sub a few weeks ago who all confused about his consumptions numbers, then a few hours later was like, "Who amongst us hasn't forgot they have a hot tub." Impossible to eyeball somebody else's consumption and know if it's reasonable. 

The Enphase equipment can be very accurate if it's installed and configured correctly. Unfortunately, there are nearly infinite wrong ways to install and configure it. Having batteries helps because the system won't work if the CTs aren't dialed in and the installer can't walk away from a misconfigured installation the way they can with solar-only.

For all the complaints I have about Austin Energy, their data services are excellent. I get daily reports with PV and consumption at 15 minute increments. I have 2 meters and get both send and receive numbers for both on my bill. It matches the import/export numbers in Enphase. Would be difficult to verify without all that available. 

Utilities will absolutely steal from you, but I think it's too easy for them to do that in plain sight for them to be tempted to cook the numbers at the meter level.
>But I can't see what I sent back  to the grid on those days 

Can you go online to your utility website and see what it says about usage? It may be delayed by a day or two.
My historical daily average over the course of a year is about 60kWh per day. I'm in Florida so there are much more hot (using a lot of A/C) days than not. It's the summer months that bring that average up, not the (current) fall months. The 2 days mentioned immediately above used only 1 hour of A/C TOTAL. Plus, we have taken steps over the last couple months to reduce our consumption - and according to the utility company's numbers, those steps have made a difference. So, for them to say that we used 20+ kWh above our average day on BOTH of those days... days when we used a TINY % of our typical A/C usage is just crazy. Our total consumption for the day would have been well below the 57.6 kWh and 55.6 kWh that Enphase said we produced.
It shows what I used that day from the grid.  It does not account for, or show what I sent back to the grid. They don't true that up until the end of the billing cycle - This is where the bulk of my concern was laying.  I'll have to wait until our 1st bill to have a better picture and really know what's happening.
It took my utility eight weeks before they could produce a correct bill. When they did it was retroactive. Maybe that is what is happening here. Who is your utility?
$3.02/w before incentives, REC panels, iq8m micros, I don't see any reason not to.
Also be sure to understand the difference between a “rebate” and “tax credit” the two are significantly different…
Ours was very similar, 28 panels for 34K.  Same as you consumption offset 85%. Hope this helps! We just had them installed 2 months ago.
Panels show significant shading where the large array is I would ask the rep to cover your tree trimming costs on this deal otherwise you’re not going to see nearly the production they are claiming. These production estimates are honestly terrible. Just my opinion
Increase to 100%  or 125% offset. As your system degrades you’ll want to have a buffer oversize setup.
Yep, I'm fully aware of the differences in those.
I'm not sure what shading you are seeing.   We have no trees remotely close that would affect it.  Panels will be on the SE and SW sides of the roof.  They guarantee that we'd see at least 90% of the production estimates and if not will add in more panels at no cost to us.
Yeah sounds good I’m sure they will honor that commitment… I’d love to see where that’s written in your HIC.
I updated and added a photo of the planned areas for the panels.
Did this system ever work? You should see if you can find the installer if they're still in business, or otherwise get a professional solar company to come and diagnose. It's not a good idea to start changing the way things are connected without understanding what could have been the reason they were done this way in the first place.
You shouldn't need the Solar meter to get the system operational. But that might be for the utility otherwise it might be a third party PV meter for a company that owns the PV system like Sunrun. 

Id start with a conversation with the utility, figure out if that PV meter is for them. Then if you want to connect the PV meter then you'll need a fused AC disconnect between the tap and the PV meter. Otherwise you might be able to remove it. Also if the system was legal and approved by the utility, usually that is reflected on the electric bill, so it'd be worth making sure the utility has already approved the PV system so you can be billed accordingly.

As far as testing the system goes, first make sure there is 240V in the PV subpanel. If not then check the connections between the PV subpanel and the tap. 

Then check for Current coming out of the PV panel. Hopefully you have a multimeter with a clamp on amp meter if not you'll need one.

Check those and report back, I'm sure we can figure this out. 
Might be worth climbing on the roof and getting a picture of one of the micro inverters too.
You have photos of the connection and equipment?
Look for the original installer and have them service the system. Although if they put in a revenue grade meter and never wired it  correctly, I would be concerned about them being a reputable company.  He might want to find a reputable company in the area and pay for a service call. A good company will service anyone's system.
Looking up previous permits when you find "creativity" is almost always wise.
I find it odd that the PV meter is dead-ended (no line connections). What was the point of putting in the meter in the first place when they could have just put in a blank, or a standard outdoor subpanel. Or, maybe it is what the "installer" had on the truck that day. 

I will check the voltage and current next time I'm at his place. 

Getting up to the roof to identify make/models of equipment is going to be a nightmare. I'm not even sure how they got up to the roof in the first place to install the panels. House 8 feet from the road, on a hill, with large thorn bushes all around it. They must have had to bring in a man lift and closed down a lane of traffic. 

He is going to get me a copy of his electric bill, and we'll give the power company a call together. 

The electrical inspector for that area is also on my speed dial. I am thinking of calling him this week to see if he can pull records. 

Out of curiosity, is it probably safe to assume that this system is using micro inverters since there are no string inverters that I can see? I don't see any other hardware on the side of the house, and I can visually follow the each of the 3 lines from the PV meter panel, up to the rows of PV's.
A lot of times when you find “creativity” there were never any permits to begin with.
Yeah, the PV meter is definitely odd. My guess is that they did the line side tap, fed that straight to the PV meter and then the PV panel. Then the inspector came and didn't like that since the tap should land on OCPD, so they changed it so the tap goes right to the panel main breaker. 

If you can get the permits for the install that would be helpful for sure. But yeah, it's pretty safe to assume it's micros if you have circuits coming down the roof and landing in an AC electric panel. Most likely Enphase micros since those are most common in the US. I think this is the US, yeah?
True! 

I would still recommend the homeowner look into it. Lots of pictures on that job.
Pennsylvania
Do you know what year it was installed?
Believed to be 5-7 years ago strictly based on the seller declaring roof age on listing.
Ok, my guess is that you'll have Enphase IQ6 micros

You might get in touch with Enphase also to see about getting the monitoring for the system switched into the homeowners name. 
Monitoring for these systems is typically done through an Enphase Envoy/IQ Gateway that will communicate with the micros on the roof. 

Do you have pics of the PV meter? I'm assuming that it looks like a traditional billing meter.
I'll post pictures in a bit. 

Was wondering if an Enphase app would be able to connect with them from the ground. Worth a shot trying?

There's got to be a Wi-Fi gateway somewhere, if they were connected to a cloud, right?
The IQ Envoy is for configuring the micros, and for sending the monitoring data to the cloud. 

But they don't need to have an IQ Envoy installed to work, but it's usually installed.
**Pull the trigger.**  In 15 years you'll be replacing the roof and/or panels anyway.  OR you will have sold the house and it will become SEP.

Or hail, or, or, or.

In the meantime you'll save considerable money, and will have come CLOSE to breakeven.

AND increase the resale value of your home! 

Where you located?  What's your net metering situation and what is your ESTIMATED breakeven period?  Asphalt shingle roof?
Yes, shingles can last a long time beyond their expected warranty period.
My neighbor has solar and is replacing his roof right now.  The cost to remove and reinstall the panels is $2,000 on a 2 story house.  Panels are about 12 years old and the solar panels caused the leak.  At the same time he’s purchased and EV and needs more panels.  What I told him to do was instead of buying more panels and paying additianl for installation just replace you older panels with the newer more efficient ones.  The new ones produce almost 50% more electricity than the older ones.  And with the cost of solar panels continuing to drop it’s worked on really good financially and he’s selling the old panels.  You might want to do the same.  If not, cost to remove and replace panels is about $2,000.  I would just install now.
I considered this for my 11 year old roof (warranty for 30).  My electricity savings in the first year was enough to cover the cost of removal and re-installation, so I just added a year to the payback time.

Yes, labor will be more expensive in 19 years, but so will my electricity rates that my system is offsetting.
Depending on the cost I would consider replacing the roof at the same time.
I had a 20 year old roof. My quote was with a new roof. Upon inspection it was determined to not need to be replaced. Just got my full month bill from Eversource, 16.00. I am over the moon!

Only been active since mid October, have 15 , 450 watt panels. Empower in Massachusetts.
Replace the roof portions that will have solar. Leave the rest to get the remaining life from those portions.
We installed on a 16-year-old roof. I just couldn't justify the quotes we were getting to replace a roof that was only halfway through its life. Talk to me in 10 years about whether that was wise or not, though! (My hope is that by the time we need to replace it, solar will be commonplace enough that removal/replacement of panels is routine and relatively inexpensive...but we'll see!)
9 year is still young enough to do solar.
Roofs are a total racket. Leaks are nearly always installation errors rather than wear. Leaks are much cheaper to fix than putting on a new roof. You just need to find an adjuster to declare that you have storm damage and voila, there is your new roof. I would put the solar panels on your existing roof and not worry about it. Roof should last a lot longer under the panels than out in the open.
Make your sales guy kick in a 1000 gift card or cash back incentive, take incentive payment and put into a CD/GIC  (fixed interest low risk investment)FOR 10 years. 
Problem solved
I just had solar installed on my 8 year old roof. I expect my shingled roof to last another 15-20 years (I live in Oregon). By that time my solar will have definitely paid for itself. Absolutely no regrets......so far 😉.
Depends on where you live. In FL the insurance companies are basically forcing us to replace a roof at the 10 year mark. When we started looking into solar we talked to one couple that was provided as a reference. They had the panels for a year. When they started the process they had someone come and inspect the roof and was told they had another 10 years before it needed to be replaced. A year later they got the letter from their insurance company they would be dropped if they didn’t replace the roof. They were looking into all options before they pulled the trigger on a new roof so not sure what ended up with it.
If he gets a good price and his home/utility are good for solar then he will more than paid for the solar in 15 years from now.
They can also last a lot less. Especially the new ones.

I just had to put a metal roof over a 5 year old asphalt shingle roof that was past its prime.
This isn’t my experience in Washington state. Shingles here typically last less time than expected.
depends on the location.  In Florida insurers generally won’t cover a shingle roof 20+ years in age which is less than the shingle warranty in many cases
Any struggles getting someone to uninstall and reinstall?
Probably $15k for a new roof, with high interest rates, it would get ride of any annual savings in the near term.
That’s helpful. I am in the 413.
Smart solution. Also ensure the roofers are installing around the brackets and not putting down shingles and then screwing in through them.
This was our original plan. Sadly the design of our roof precluded it but if yours allows for it, this is a great compromise.
How do you like the metal roof?
Not really.  There are people out there who want to make money and know what they are doing.   Just make sure when you have the roofers install the new roof they install the UNDER the shingle solar mounts and you won’t have to worry about leaks
In 15 years, the equivalent solar will be either cheap or your installer or potentially the manufacturers will be out of business. 

15 years is a long time. $15k (for a new roof) is probably half the cost of the solar. Depending on type and condition of roof, I’d just roll the dice and go with it. Depending on type of roof, you could condition it before hand—help keeping it flexible or lock the granuals in, etc.
Talk to Ryan Severn (sic). He took care of us.
I like it. Cooled the upstairs by many degrees in the summer even though it was black. I bet you could cool  even more with a light colored roof.
I've seen them in garages and a basement, but I would look into codes cause I'm not sure if you can have it just like in a bedroom
Yes, I think It will better for protect them againts weather conditions.
Wherever it's put will need some form of ventilation. at least for the inverter.
You're going to have to look at local codes. In my area you absolutely cannot have them within the living structure--garages are okay, if you can find somewhere to fit within the rules.. In fact, there's so many rules most of the time they go outside. For example, must be 4 ft away from any door or window, 3 ft away from an electrical outlet(Since garages require an outlet every 8 ft. Finding a place in the garage is virtually impossible for new construction), 3 ft off the ground, must have a bollard in front of them so they can't be hit by a vehicle,must be 3 ft away from an additional battery....
Typically yes but it depends on your building codes and AHJ
Ventilated outdoor enclosure is the way. 

BTW, look up "LG battery recall". You might want to see if your battery is on the list.
What country do you live in?
oh wow. I guess we don’t live in the same country 😅
It’s not, fortunately. But thanks for the callout!
Spain
In the UK we can install inverters and batteries inside the home, they need to have proper ventilation and fire proof backing or be mounted away from surfaces. A garage, porch or utility would be the preferred location.
that’s helpful information! thanks for sharing
Garage or outhouse would be preferable.
$33k/6.5kw = $5/w.  While this is a small system, and it is bought down massively financing, $5/w is still a bit too expensive unless there are adders we don't know about like battery, ground mount, new roof, etc.  Also demco does not do 1:1 full net metering last I knew so make sure you call the power company and fully understand their interconnect payment schedule.
Also, if you look, currently annual power bill $1411 (so about $117/m), after solar utility bill of $823/yr (so $66/m) plus the $142/m = now instead of $117/m you will be paying a total of $208/m for power.
The tax credit has a few more years. He’s trying to make you make an urgent decision. Twisting the truth.
>I get a 30% tax credit if I sign this year. 

They lied to you. Do a bit more research, get at least a couple more quotes.

https://www.consumerreports.org/home-garden/alternative-energy/how-the-residential-clean-energy-solar-tax-credit-works-a1771685058/

https://www.energy.gov/eere/solar/homeowners-guide-federal-tax-credit-solar-photovoltaics

The installation of the system must be complete during the tax year.

>He also claimed that the solar panels would provide insulation to the house which should bring down my energy usage, is that correct?

They lied again. They might bring shade, but that's not insulation.
Wow that is very expensive and I think any insulating effect from the panels will be minor
As others have said, if you go with deal, you will pay more for electricity than you currently do. If your goal is environmental, that's fine. If you want to save money, this is the opposite of that.
Not only is this a horrible deal, but it’s just a horrible name for a company…
You sure about your annual energy bill? Seems a bit less for the consumption.
No! Not even remotely close to being good.
UPDATE: I can't edit the post so I'll respond here. Thanks for everyones information and help. Since I don't have a time frame on the federal tax credits and it seems this estimate is high, I turned down his offer even after he dropped it another 5K. I plan on doing more research into how my entergy provider handles export / buyback and to gather other quotes.
So best case scenario you would be paying $142/month to save $50/month…financially this is a terrible deal. Go for it if your priority is to save emissions.
Reading OP's replies it is clear that they are still uninformed/gullible customers to steal money from. Smh
Dumb name and simple quote details to hide the bad deal
You can buy a Renogy Lycan, which is a box pre-wired at the factory with everything in it, totally plug and play, for about 3,000 USD when they have sales, 5,000 normal price. It can take up to 20 KWH of batteries, so you could buy 1 more at 750 and have more KWH than they are offering you. 

You can buy solar panels, and cables and fuses and such for cheap ish. I have 6 that cost about 1,500 for my 4.8 kWh system, and it works well for me in a very northern latitude in Canada, so say you have to buy a bit more so 2k for panels. (You may get by with less if you are further south) 

My mount cost me 300$ in lumber and a couple of days to build.

So for a plug and play system from Renogy, you would pay 

3,000 for power box
750 for extra battery
2,000 for solar panels, cables, fuses and hardware
300 or so for a local electrician to wire it to a transfer box for hardwiring it to your house.

Total cost 6,050

Time investment, the system is totally plug and play so maybe half day reading the manual, unboxing, situating it, another hour dealing with a local electrician, and a couple of days to build the solar array mount (or you could buy a ready made one from cabin depot or somewhere if you aren’t handy)

So their markup is about 500 percent.

I did it myself for just their base 4.8 kWh system. For the time I spent getting it situated, I saved about 1,700$ an hour I worked on it compared to my local installer’s quote, which was similar to yours.

That was worth it to me, but it depends on how you value your time.

The tax credit really ends up in the hands of the installers.

You save tens of thousands by forgoeing the tax credit and doing it yourself,
[removed]
Bad deal.  Always ask for the cash price in any quote.  I don't know the details of the dealer fees they're charging with for that loan, but I'm going to assume that the cash price would be around $24,750 based off of some of the dealer fees that I'm aware of for a 4.99% 25 year loan.  That would mean that before your tax credit, you're paying $3.82 a watt, which in pretty much every market is on the high side.
When it comes to solar, every company that is sponsored through net metering has a red line, most are around the 3.00 line, being anywhere above the red line is what goes into their pockets. The best way to get the best deal is to find out what their red line is and get the closest number to it. That being said some add ons will make it to where you can’t get .01 above the red line. Regardless, you’ll be making a better decision financially going Solar period. But the best deal is earned by going as low as possible.
aim for < $3/system size in watts for a system without batteries, incentives, rebates (cash value)
Did you just buy the house?
Also if you look. The panels are only going to generate 9,400kwh annually. And you consume over 15,000kwh this means you will only have a partial offset and will have money still owed to utility. If you can add more panels, I would to get a full offset. If you cant I would still do it with the partial
The panels don't provide any insulation value,  that's just bullshit. 

The shade they provide isn't nothing however.
After tax credits, it should be $3.55/w
My current bill is actually about $160/mo with levelized billing.
You’re right. He implied the 200 billion tax credit ends this year and next year is unknown. It appears to go to 2032
That happy family on the beach background is a red flag to me. Playing a psychological game - "do it for your family!"
Thanks for the help.
I get the $142 for 18 months so even if it _has_ to be applied to next year, I won’t get the payment bump until after 2 tax seasons from today.
What about this post about how much his panels reduced heat?   
https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/comments/o7t8ws/solar\_panels\_as\_roof\_insulation\_yes\_flir\_pictures/
Thanks for your help. I turned down the offer. I also couldn't find any scientific claims proving or disproving the shade / insulation providing significant cost savings. If I can't in the future, I'll just go under the assumption that it doesn't.
I agree. I tried to find research on that claim and couldn't find anything scientific. I based my decision to turn it down on the assumption that the claim was false.
Thanks for you input. I turned the offer because cost-savings was my goal.
I've seen far worse names. And as long as it isn't called "Good Cheap Solar" who cares what it is named?
Yes. I calculated the last 4 years I lived here and I average 15kwh per year
Counter his offer at $19,400. And stick firm to that price. If you shop around, you should be able to find a system this size installed for sub-$20k.

The salesman here is earning 50% in commission if he manages to sell it to you for $33k. He is still looking at a $3-5k commission if he sells it to you for $20k.
Forgive me, but I’m not following this logic. My current bill is $160. So saving $50/mo would be still paying the power company $110/mo + the $142/mo for solar?
Why would I still pay _that_ much to the power company?
What a jerk response. Obviously I’m not informed, that’s why I came here to ask for group thoughts. My replies were trying to balance what the sales guy told me, what people here said, and what people were DMing me. I tried not taking what ANYONE said for truth but using general guidance to figure what’s best for me. I ended up turning down the offer even after he discounted it another 5K so that I can gather more quotes and inform myself better in a non-rushed situation. 

I came here for information and help which most people offered. Except you. You’re a dick.
I've seen far worse names. And as long as it isn't called "Good Cheap Solar" who cares what it is named?
This comment has been removed.  From the sub rules: "Due to ongoing spam / promotion / lead generation and site privacy rule violation issues, we no longer allow "DM/PM me" requests in the comments."  These have too frequently been abuse of the sub in attempts to garner private info for spam / promotion / lead generation purposes.  ***Do not ask or suggest that anyone privately contact you.***  No exceptions.

**To all sub participants**: If anyone has sent you a PM / DM to solicit your info because of your participation in this subreddit 1) do NOT respond to them and 2) please message the moderators to let them know.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
No I’ve been here almost 5 years
I’m well aware it’s only 62% coverage. I would need to add another 10 panels for full coverage. Based on the financing, each additional panel would be about $8/month.
I figured as much
You always compare price per watt before any credits, not after.
Still, you would pay more monthly with the solar than what you pay now. They even wrote it down for you: currently you pay $0.093 kWh and with the system it will be about $0.19 kWh.
I went off the number listed at the top of the page you provided. If your bill is more than $1411/yr ($117/m) then they are under sizing your layout as well as this page says they are sizing everything for a $1411/yr use currently.
Yeah he flat out lied to you.  I think it’s time to tell him to take a hike and find more honest companies.
It is good at 30% until 2032.  9 more years.
I sell solar for a real company that won’t play those games. We genuinely offer the best product at the best price with the best service. Only a desperate company would make up stories like that.
I guess it's possible Trump wins in 2024 and takes away the tax credit in 2025 since it was a Biden initiative.
> I get the $142 for 18 months so even if it has to be applied to next year, I won’t get the payment bump until after 2 tax seasons from today.

Let me be clear on this. Are you saying the price is going to increase in 18 months?
Please get some more bids and don’t let them pressure you in to making a decision
He said the 5k off makes him no money and it’s to help the different guy that knocks on the door. I assume he has a commission too.
Also, if I’m gonna do solar, I don’t want a system that only generates 62% of my usage. It needs to be near 100%.
That’s correct. That’s even what the sales guy is telling you which is why I said it’s the best case scenario. This is approximately a 6kw system so it says the produced power is about 60% of your consumption, but a lot of that is likely sold back to the grid at a wholesale cost so the entire system is only going to offset your bill by about 30%, while your new loan payment will be about 90% of your previous bill on top of whatever your still pulling from the grid. TLDR, this deal is going to increase your out of pocket costs by 60% every month… run away.

Solar is taking off cause it’s so easy to confuse people with numbers. Be vigilant. I love solar and wish it wasn’t so, but with the gouging that’s happening right now it’s not a good financial decision.
At bottom part of their own estimate it says your bill to power company is expected to be $823 (which I think they estimated low), but it would still be almost $70/m using their calculations.
You misunderstand. My comment is directed at the solar industry that aims to take advantage of those not fully informed.
That is a great option then. Great decision going Solar
So you’re saying this system should cost almost 30% less _before_ credits?
This is a key correct bit of info.  By their own math, you will pay almost double after getting solar.
The numbers at the top were generated by the engineers at the solar company. However that is my average annual usage. (Both screenshots are from their proposal)

It’s proposed for 62% coverage and when I asked for 2-4 more panels, he said I don’t really need it. That for 7 months of the year I shouldn’t have to pay the energy company but the other peak months I will.
What company is that?
The $142 is if I take the 30% credit and apply it to the finance. If I don’t, the monthly payment jumps to $177ish.
That's what I decided to do. Thanks for the help.
People lie. 

Others already showed that this salesman lied about the tax credit. The salesman lied to you.

Cost on a system like this is right around $1/watt. Install is right around $1k + $0.50/watt. Permits, etc vary based on the area, but expect between $50 and $1k for permits.

Meaning, for a system this size, actual cost from the manufacturer would be around $12k. There is a mark up by the company that stickers these products (before the salesman sees it). That is in the range of 20-30%. So the cost to the salesman is in the $14-16k range. The salesman likely sees a cut of the total commission - instead of the whole commission. Either way, the company profits at $20k.

Just multiply whatever system size you decide on by $3/watt - and expect to spend at or under that price. So a 10 kw system should be right at $30k.
Sorry, I don't believe that. You called the people (customers) gullible. That's directing the comment toward the people not the solar companies for being shady.
If it was cash price (not financed at 4.99%), and has no battery, I would expect it to cost about $20k before rebates.  At 4.99% I would not take it, but it would likely be increased in price to about $29.5k.  Lastly check DEMCO net metering, you are only getting avoided cost for any export if my latest info is correct. That means you either want battery to avoid export, or to build system small enough to avoid export normally.
Best case you want a system to over produce enough in the summer to bank enough credits to cover your usage in the winter when the system is not producing as much
That software looks like SOLO which has fairly poor kWh/year estimated and tends to be very rosey. 

Definitely not “engineers” but more software engineers, directed by managers who sells
Software to cash based installers who don’t provide
Explicit $/kWh refunds if the system underperformed, used by sales people who’s primary incentive is to sell you fast and move on to the next.

That 4.99 is a plan with a 28-40% setup charge. 

It’s an OK strategy if you never intend to make anything more than minimum payments..
Purelight Power. We do everything in house. We don’t sub anything out. Roofing, insulation, battery systems, and panel systems. And we see a lot of people that have been told they couldn’t go Solar that were lied to by companies that passed on their project because they couldn’t make a ridiculous profit on it. We make a lot of those projects work for the homeowner. We’re all w2 employees. Not 1099 contractor Solar hobos. What part of the country are you in? We’re mostly western states. Based in Oregon.
It's a credit, not a refund. You are BEGGING to be scammed. Did they also offer undercoating?
Thanks for the info. I'll keep that in mind for the future.
You aren't required to believe it. That's ok. But my post history here is vehemently against such a thing from happening. Carry on.
It has no batteries. He mentioned the box on the house keeps track of rolling credits that can be applied in the future if I need more than what it produces. 

So exporting is when I produce more than I use and sell it back to the power company?
It is DEMCO, he doesn't bank credit if I recall from their reimbursement, avoided cost only each month I believe
You are correct, it is SOLO. And I saw where it redirected to the software sellers site. They're a roofing company that decided to dip into solar and used off the shelf software to facilitate that. I don't fault them for that. But I do fault them for under equipment and over pricing.
Louisiana. This company is also a roofing company and does the work themselves
No they didn’t offer anything beyond this and warranty for workmanship and materials.
Yes, if you are making more during the day than your house is using at that moment then it is sent to the grid as an export.

In areas with 1:1 full net metering then during day you make extra and then at night you use that extra and since you get full credit it is a wash. If you make 100% of your needed power for year from solar you have basically no bill for electric use but often still a small connection charge. 

In areas with "avoided cost", the extra you send the during day gets credited at say $0.04 and then at night when you "need it back", youare charged full price at around $0.10 from DEMCO.    In this case if you have 100% offset without battery, then you send out about 50% of your power to DEMCO as export, get less than 50% credit for all of it so about 20% credit total and then buy it back at full price at night for half your power. You end up with still buy 30% worth of power $ even though your panels made 100% of your needs for the year.
Thanks for your input. I don't full understand all of the intricacies of DEMCOs policy on solar buy back, but I turned down the offer so I could get more informed and additional quotes when I'm ready. And now I know more questions to ask when the time comes. I appreciate your help.
Happy to help. We have multiple crews that can service DEMCO.
This was very much what I have zero information about that I need to find out more about. Even if I had a great deal, if DEMCO screws the exchange, it might not be worth it unless I'm storing it in a battery and using what I produce. Thank you.
That study is so they can figure out how to charge you more.
Fuck them. Their smart meters aren’t calibrated or what?
Consider it a clever way to audit the actual energy creation. $50 is absolutely nothing to SDGE.
Shit lmk I just got PTO 3 weeks ago
LOLz.  It's the in to behind the meter charges.

&#x200B;

>What do you guys think - is it worth it?

I'm not even going to dignify that with an answer.
Haha yup. I think I'll pass vs selling out. They're already screwing us over with the income-based tiered charges; why bother helping them out more when that $50 will go back to them sooner than later?
If you live in the southwest US / warmer climates, I would consider a heat pump tanked hot water heater.  They're about 3 times more efficient than standard resistive coil electric hot water heaters.  You can get them in 50, 65 or 80 gallon tanks.  Bonus for warmer climates... they take your warm air and exhaust cool air wherever they sit.  Just like a refrigerator in reverse.  So if you have a hot garage, they'll make it cooler and the water heater will be super efficient.  In the winter, if temps get too low they will resort to resistive coil heating... but 10 months out of the year it can be very efficient.
I have an 18.48 KW system with 48 panels on my roof and it's not large enough to power an electric tankless water heater. An electric tankless water heater will use so much energy while it's running you'd need to have an absolutely massive solar array to cover it. Ditch the electric tankless and stick with gas for that appliance or get a heat pump water heater and call it a day.
Get a hybrid heat pump water heater.  They sip electricity.  Your solar production will barely notice it and you'll be producing hot water with clean energy.

Think about the placement.  They need a certain size room and will steal heat from that room.  Unless you will be venting it (pulling in and exhausting air).  They also make a fan noise - best in a utility room.
If you have the space for it I think the answer is increasingly a heat pump water heater and not tankless.
You shouldn't get a tankless if you want to get most out of your solar panels. Get one with a large tank, heat it at daytime and you have hot water till next morning
Your solar will not directly power your tankless water heater, but it will generate credits that can be used to pay for your electric tankless water heater usage.

If you got in under NEM 2.0 then you get 1:1 credit.

If you lose grid power and you don't have a battery, your tankless will not work.  Neither will a gas one though unless you have some sort of backup.

If you lose grid and you DO have a battery, it may still not be enough to operate your electric tankless, while it would be enough to operate a gas tankless.
I have an all-electric Steibel-Eltron.  Has worked awesome last 10+ years.
Get a heat pump hot water heater. They are extremely efficient, and there are incentives available in California that are valued up to $7,300.

Tankless hot water heaters use an enormous amount of energy.
I had a house that had existing oil heater superstor. I added heat pump water heater in series after the superstor. I plumbed it such that either could be isolated and/or operated giving me long term fuel flexibility and additional water storage for Armageddon🤣
https://global.honda/en/newsroom/news/2012/p120925eng.html
I've had two all electric tankless water heater and both of them didn't work out, so at the end I just went back to a gas hybrid tankless water heater [Navien 240A](https://www.navieninc.com/products/npe-240a2) and it's almost a year now with zero problems.

When I bought my house back in early 2022, I rewired the entire house, upgraded the electric panel to 200AMP to get ready for solar, an EV charger, a pool pump and an all electric tankless water heater[all electric tankless water heater ](https://a.co/d/biUNn1a). When I showed my electrician this water heater, his first reaction was "No, don't get an all electric one, they consume way too much energy!" But I didn't listen, I just said I wanted to try it out and if he could make it happen. He installed a sub panel just for this water heater and before the installation, he warned me once again, "This unit consumes 121amps when it's in use, it's too much!" But I didn't listen again. So he installed it. It was working fine the first week. Hot water came out in less than 20 seconds, I thought I made the right choice. 

After two weeks, the breaker started tripping when hot water continuously ran for more than 30 minutes. I called my electrician over and he gave me the "I told you so" look. But I still didn't learn my lesson...I thought if this one consumed too much power, then maybe I could go for [a smaller one](https://a.co/d/2MdrZLM) (?!) Without a word, my electrician installed the new unit (btw, my electrician is a really good friend of mine, he's been helping me with everything around the house for years). 

Again, it worked wonderfully and flawlessly in the first month. Then one day my wife told me the guest bathroom didn't have hot water but the master bathroom still have hot water. And since my electrician was busy with another job, I called some water heater company I found on Yelp. Two guys came over, after some poking around, they said the wiring wasn't done correctly. But I told them that both bathrooms had hot water for almost a month, if the wiring wasn't done correctly then none should have hot water in the first place. But anyways, they said they would fix it. It was a rainy cold winter day, so I said just fix it if you think it's an easy fix. It took them about 15 minutes to fix but now both bathrooms didn't have hot water! I was so frustrated and asked them to undo whatever they did but they insisted that's the correct way to wire the unit and said my unit was too small for a 2 bathrooms house. So without another word I just told them to leave if they couldn't undo whatever they did.

At this point my wife told me we're not going to try anymore electric tankless water heater in the foreseeable future. And I didn't want anymore of these headache so I went for a gas tankless water heater. It still uses electricity to ignite but it'll then switch to gas. The best part about this gas tankless water heater is that it had a recurring pump. It made all the water pipes in the house a close loop and the water heater has an AI mode to learn your usage habit. Let's say you also shower at 7am every morning. Once the system learns that, it will start boiling the water at 630 then once you turn on the shower at 7, it quickly moves the hot water from the water heater to the shower and the cold water from the shower to somewhere else. That way you get hot water much faster without wasting a lot of cold water. Traditional gas tankless water heater might take minutes to get hot water and you'll be wasting so much water everyday.
tankless electric hot water systems use up to 40KW when running. depending on what kind of solar inverter you have, it may go into bypass mode and shut down your solar production every time your hot water system turns on. I have an 80 gallon rheem heat pump hyrbid water tank. it was $2600 and has tons of rebates/incentives everywhere including the 30% tax credit (on specific models). works great with solar and I can run it when grid is down.
Have you looked at the latest 120v heat pump water heaters.  The new A.O. Smith 120v Voltex is a hybrid heat pump and backup resistive heating hot water heater.  [https://www.hotwater.com/products/decarbonization-heat-pump-voltex-120/hptv-80-200/100361944.html](https://www.hotwater.com/products/decarbonization-heat-pump-voltex-120/hptv-80-200/100361944.html)

Has anyone ordered it yet?

This is a good article explaining some of the newer features used in these newer systems:

[https://cleantechnica.com/2023/10/25/our-new-120-volt-plug-in-heat-pump-water-heater-is-one-of-the-first-in-the-country/](https://cleantechnica.com/2023/10/25/our-new-120-volt-plug-in-heat-pump-water-heater-is-one-of-the-first-in-the-country/)
It depends on where the water heater is in your home for if it would go into a resistive mode for the heat pump water heater in a climate with winter weather. It would mean that if the space with the water heater is conditioner, that you would essentially have your furnace work to counteract the cooling of the water heater.

An on demand electric water heater is always a resistive element, so the 10 months or so of a year where a heat pump water heater is very efficient would probably work out to cost less than an on demand water heater.

Edit: plus, they make units now that can go on a 120v outlet, which can be a substantial savings for OP if they do not have the wiring installed yet in their home.
Thanks for responding. Just to be certain, you're saying I should keep paying my utility company a gas bill and use a gas-powered tankless water heater, right? Thanks!
Actually with the modern electric ones it modulates the voltage to the element based on flow rate. Just because it says it has a certain size element doesn't mean the element is being used to its full capacity.
>If you lose grid and you DO have a battery, it may still not be enough to operate your electric tankless, while it would be enough to operate a gas tankless.

which could also operate a tanked heat pump one as well.
Times two. We have one in North Al. No local incentives for it but it works very good for solar. Especially during extended power outages.
>It would mean that if the space with the water heater is conditioner, that you would essentially have your furnace work to counteract the cooling of the water heater.  
>  
>An on demand electric water heater is always a resistive element, so the 10 months or so of a year where a heat pump water heater is very efficient would probably work out to cost less than an on demand water heater.

Especially once you factor in the cooling savings in the summer months with the heat pump.

The "winter loss" also goes down the more "leaky" the house is.
Yes, stick with a gas water heater if tankless is what you're after. If you want to convert it to electric then get a heat pump water heater in whatever size best fits your needs.
Yes
An electric tankless water heater is basically incompatible with battery backup. They draw from 8kW to 27kW. 

For example, Enphase 5P batteries can sustain 3.8kW each. You would need 8 of them to get over 27kW.

Heat pump water heater is great with batteries. Run it during the day with excess solar that would have otherwise been curtailed or exported, and it acts as a thermal battery.
Please add the solar quote flair to all posts about quotes.
Looks good, about half of residential installs are solaredge. Looks good with info posted.
1. Yes jinko is tier 1
2. Inverter is good match for array size. Consider energy hub version if you will want battery or EV charging nearby.
3. For ground mount that is very reasonable.
4. Good info
5. What part do you need explained?  Start with the website https://illinoisshines.com/brochures-and-other-resources/
FYI "IL Shines" is really just a marketing term as far as I can tell.  When you get solar in Illinois you are eligible for SRECs.  Normally your installer helps you sell those to an aggregator, and eventually get a check that is a credit towards your production for the next 15 years.  You are required to produce the amount that you contract for, and if you dont they can come back and bill you for it.  The check SREC check takes quite a while to process.  I'm 200+ days out from signing the SREC contract and still waiting, and they say it can take 280 days.   Carbon Solutions Group is the company that mine went through.  Make sure the company your going through is reputable and has a good history.  Don't just trust your installer to do it.  SRECs are complicated and took me a while to understand...
1. Personally opt for Qcell over jinko.
2. Solar edge is fine for grounmount
3. It’s reasonable for GM
4. For the SREC, find out who is the aggregator they are using. Is that the amount after fees or before? What about the 15 year holdback?
Module power is outdated, there are modules with more power density and degradation aspects even for the same supplier. Jinko is better than QCell, is a triple AAA tier 1 company.
My SE inverter stopped working about 5 months after installation but was easily fixed with a reset.
Jinko is associated with forced labor in China and SolarEdge has a well deserved reputation for failures and bad customer service. 

If the $/w was lower I’d give it a pass but for 3.50/w there’s much better hardware out there.
All I saw was SolarEdge. Do not do it.
$3.5/W? What am I missing?
this is in Australia?…we just had a 10kw Sungrow (none hybrid) inverter with 13kw of Jinko panels for $10k after gov rebate …DQ Electrical did the job in South Australia …how much does ground mount add to your quote V’s if it was on a roof?
That’s a lot for a string inverter and no battery BU…
You can always ask for a SMD1 certificate
My Jinko panels were made in Florida. Your Qcells are more likely to be made in China.

I have solar edge and there I wish I didn’t as I did have an inverter fail within a year.
Ground mount with trenching
You missed the part where he mentioned it was a ground mount. There’s a wee bit more labor and material cost involved (plus permits & engineering)  involved to deliver a GM
What does smdi certification do? And mean please?
The Q Cells we have been using the past year have been US made fwiw. Solar edge has a 12 year warranty and can be extended to 25 years.
We’ve had SE inverter for 6 years now. No problem at all. Support is good.
Check Google
I don’t know much about ground mounting cost direct costs, but trenching shouldn’t cost much. Even $10/foot even seems pricey by hand or with ditch witch.
You also have extra conduit, wiring, time, etc with every foot. I believe last time I saw a company logging system it was $30/ft once all parts were added in.
Thanks. +1 for additional #s
That electrical tape ball is sus. 

If that’s a bunch of wire nuts buried in there, it’s not the right way to make a splice. An outdoor rated handy box with strain relief connectors attached to a railing is a quick and safe way to make a splice instead of that laziness.

Here’s an example 

https://imgur.com/a/JSwB3pD
Don’t look UNDER the panels!
Get some Enphase connectors
Inquiring minds want to know What’s under the electrical tape!
A properly installed system using all the proper and LISTED components, should not have any electrical tape required.
Hack.  

At a minimum bring that into a junction box and make an appropriate splice.  Or, save time and money and use an enphase splice kit.
There’s a special connector for splices…
And STOP butting module frames against each other. This is an industry wide issue. 

The modules are not installed according to manufacturers specifications. I see this very often, there must be an interval of at least 10mm between two modules to account for thermal expansion. The mid clamps provide proper clearance on the long ends but on the short ends where the frames are butted up — that’s no buneno.
cut that bitch open

[Comfort\_in\_darkness](https://www.reddit.com/user/Comfort_in_darkness/)
Conduit deck mount over two shingles courses. Potential leak imo
Why aren’t there solar panels shaped to match roofs?  Total lack of innovation.
How are you not worried about the fact that the roof is 3 Tab? Never put solar panels on a 3 tab roof, or you are just asking for trouble.
Dog shit work, use the Q cable male and female connectors…
Looks solid..above what most do..
What company did this by chance are they out of Dallas?
Good on ya for bringing a ladder. My inspector never left the ground and was gone in 5 min….
Or just spending 25 bucks for a male and female boot from Enphase 🤷🏻‍♂️
We use a junction box when we have to.
It's certainly suspicious, but it's not necessarily bad. It looks to me to be in the shape of MC3 connectors. If so the installer may have used the tape to keep them together due to it being fairly easy to disconnect. Unlikely to be wire nuts.

After reading what op put in the text it's less likely to be MC3 connectors with IQ8's
Pay no attention to that man behind the curtain!
Also not sure how two Enphase connectors is more cost than what installing a box would entail, I get how the tape job is more cost effective but does he care about burning the house down? That’s expensive
For new installs we do. But recently we have only been doing reroofs and the boss doesn’t like to wait for them 🙄
I didn’t open them because my company isn’t going to be held liable for when it sparks 😂
Can you elaborate please and share resources? Are you referring to a vertical gap or side by side? Side by side, I’m sure the minds would give the proper spacing for thermal expansions.
Yeh this. Use a mid clamp to get the spacing but then remove it again once panels are secured
I have seen too many do this too, and I have bad nerves every time I come around one, for the most time it's a "Prof" company too. And when I come to a "amateur, self though" they lay exactly after the book and the roof is compensated for the extra stress.
Hell nah 😂
Why is that? We have done it a few times ourselves with no issues.
Lumios not sure if they’re out of Dallas, our company is in Killeen area
Tell your boss to quit being a hack. There are plenty of proper ways to splice trunk cable that keep it outdoor rated. You don't need to shell out the money for the enphase product but you should take pride in your work and install your shit right. There's enough people in the field that give the industry a bad name.  Strive to be one of the good ones.
I don’t blame you
Not trying to be a dick but Reread my response. 

Download the module manufactures installation instructions.

You can’t “butt” the frames together
I am an adjuster with a decent amount of engineering background. A lot of my time is spent on roofing unfortunately. 

I can tell right now that solar, roofing, and insurance are a problematic trio, so it’s highly recommended to put a ton of forethought into this combination. It also depends on where you live in the country.

For example, if you live in the areas with a high amount of hail, I would not put solar on a 3 tab roof. Pretty much any hail stone that is 1 inch in diameter, or larger, the roof is toast.  
If you live in an area with high wind speeds or gusts, the roof is toast. 
If you live in an area with high heat or radiation, the roof will be toast pretty quickly.

Many shingle manufacturers have even been in talks of trying to discontinue 3 Tab as an offered selection, but have yet to pull the trigger on that year after year. 

States like Florida have been pretty harsh when it comes to insurance coverage and policy provisions that try to avoid insuring or covering certain roofs of certain types, age, and if they have solar. 

All I can say is, whenever getting solar, always have the roof replaced, and brought up to code, with a covering that is longer lasting and resilient.
Let me rephrase, when we don’t use the connectors and make a splice, it’s always in a junction box.
So I am assuming that you’re referring to a vertical gap. Reading the manual I see what you’re referring to. Thank you for that information. Off the top of your head, do you know if this is Q Cell specific?
I like that! Sadly I live and work in Texas. We experience hail, high winds, and extreme heat yearly. We’ve worked on a few three tabs but I’ve not really given thought onto the integrity of them vs others
No it's not
Thermal expansion is a thing that gets ignored by a lot. I has a $500K install of *something* at work fail due to 1/4” thermal expansion joints not being installed every 4 feet. It bent massive structural steel columns and cracked concrete. Do not underestimate the power of thermal expansion
I recently moved in to a new house in a new neighborhood.  Ion hit the area hard knocking on doors. I planned on adding solar so I listed to their pitch. I got several other quotes. Ion quoted me a 6 kw system for $50k. Several of my neighbors did not get other quotes. Now they all have grossly undersized systems. All of them ended up with 6 kw systems and paid around $45k for them. Several are already having issues with panels not generating and roof leaks. I know this is anecdotal to the Ion installer in my area but I wouldn't give them any business.
[deleted]
Recent post about them.  Not me

https://www.reddit.com/r/solar/comments/18826ab/ion\_just\_tried\_to\_take\_advantage\_of\_me\_and\_im\_not/
I got door Knocked by them 4 times in 6 weeks and the company I went with was a full dollar a watt cheaper than them.  The local company I went with did realistic power consumption and generation calculations and had access to higher quality solar panels.  I got more for less from a local company than what Ion was charging or proposing.
Look them up on your local L&I website.
I don't know what the kw of the system they offered but my quote was only $36k.
I'm going to ask my coworker about the company he went with. I know they put a new roof on his house but I don't know all the details. 

The contract and statement of understanding say that I can cancel anytime before the date of install without any penalties or fees.
Read it closely. I forgot to add that their quote really fucked around with the tax rebate and SRECs being included in the numbers. Get several quotes…
Absolutely do not go with Ion. Any company relying on door knockers is going to give you a high price and low quality service. Their business model is "churn and burn" - find local installers with strong reviews (4.9 minimum).

Cancel *immediately*.
Recommend sharing the info on the contract here for us to provide feedback.  Goal is normally $3/w before any incentives for cash price.  For example a shingle roof mounted install for $30,000 before the tax credit ($21,000 after)  for 10.0kw of solar panels (400w x 25 panels), and not kWh #.
He did say that, that was after the tax rebate of like $18k
Ask for the cash price before any incentives and work from that
It’s a non refundable tax credit, not a rebate. I’d recommend canceling and getting a few more quotes before you make a decision on what installer to go with. Get quotes from well rated local installers, not the guys that come knocking. Solar can be awesome, but take a little time to understand it before you sign a contract for tens of thousands of $
The Enphase box in the first pic should have a couple led lights in the top right of the enclosure that you can see. If they are green everything should be working or they will be amber if there are problems. 

If there are no lights at all then chances are you have a blown fuse in the small grey box or tripped/ turned off breaker in the large grey box. 

If checking any of these things makes you uncomfortable I suggest you hire a professional. 

[Also here is how you transfer ownership to your name if you haven’t done this already](https://www4.enphase.com/en-sa/support/how-do-i-transfer-ownership-enphase-systems?utm_term=&utm_campaign=&utm_source=google&utm_medium=ppc&hsa_acc=1236416428&hsa_cam=20130257651&hsa_grp=&hsa_ad=&hsa_src=x&hsa_tgt=&hsa_kw=&hsa_mt=&hsa_net=google&hsa_ver=3&gad_source=1&gbraid=0AAAAADoP1Ft0iCxQyS_uPHia_ve_4ZfvQ&gclid=CjwKCAiAmZGrBhAnEiwAo9qHiaeVmUUiHt83nsYmBfACJLJp92UsfKL2vu-qiN3jOFeKnSxnHQ9ugRoCCVIQAvD_BwE)
Have you tried contacting Enphase? Most of your equipment should still be under manufacturer warranty. I’d go that route to see if they can put you in touch with a reputable solar professional in your area.
I would do 2 things. First contact enphase and make sure they transfer system access over to you for monitoring purposes. Then you are able to see if it is producing. 

Next contact utilities and make sure you are approved for interconnection. This has to be done for every new homeowner. 

Once you have done those two steps, your monitoring portal should give you the ability to see if there are further issues. Or if the system is even turned on.
First picture is your Enphase combiner box. This is where 2 of your 20Amp solar panel circuits combine. 
Second picture is just an AC disconnect which should be between combiner box and your main panel. This disengages your PV system from main panel. 
Third picture appears to be your main panel. If you open it up, you should see a presumably 40Amp breaker with PV warning label next to it. I'm assuming that's in off position since there are no LEDs lit up in your combiner box. 
Once you have ensured all breakers/ disconnects are in ON position, you should see the LEDs on top inside your combiner box indicate system status. You can contact Enphase to transfer system ownership to you and they can also help troubleshoot system if it needs anything. Good luck.
Download the Enphase Enlighten app to your phone. Then your can see what your production and consumption are assuming the CTs are wired properly.
Solar is freedom?
You can try shutting the main disconnect off for a minute and then turning it back on to reset the system. Watch the LEDs when you do this. You can also flip the breakers off and then back on. Two should be to the panels and one to the Envoy (the controller)
Also check inside the solar disconnect to see if it is the fuseable type and there are fuses inside that have continuity. If it is not fuseable type the knife blades make the connection.
Thanks!
>If there are no lights at all then chances are you have a blown fuse in the small grey box or tripped/ turned off breaker in the large grey box.

Starting point number 1 for sure. Likely a surge or incorrect fuse sizing depending on location and stupidity of the original installer.
He needs to contact the lease company as they own the system and are responsible for all warranty/repair
>This has to be done for every new homeowner. 

In California the PTO transfers with the property in which the meter is attached. Somewhere in your bill there may be a clue.
Hey. Thanks for the response.
I did call enphase and they transferred ownership and got me set up on the app.. then I contacted original installer for a service checkup.. although they told me since ownership transferred I no longer have the labor warranty.. which seems like BS since it’s only a couple year old system
I see a 30amp breaker that’s in ‘on’ position..
But yeah the LEd lights in the combiner box are all off..
He will need a login from the installer, leasing company or Enphase.  In the meantime he can probably see from his utility website if he is exporting anything.  All the breakers look like they are on.

EDIT: I reread the thread and there are three places with breakers. one, the main panel;  two, the solar disconnect; and three, the breakers inside the combiner. The only one visable in the pictures are the combiner breakers and those appear to be on. The covers of the other two need to be opened and the status of the other two need to be confirmed and see if the LEDs in the combiner box light up.
He would need the LED lights to be on before the Enlighten app can see the Envoy in the combiner.
When flipping thebereakers off you may need to push them all the way to the off position so they latch and then go to the ON position completely. Sometimes they may look like they are on but if loose they need to be reset with the above process.
Based on the photo you should be able to contact Enphase and get access to their online monitoring service, that little blue box is a cell modem to aid in collecting the data.
Yes, even though the original installer is gone the leasing company has an interest in making sure it is working. Most PPAs and leases base the payment on power produced.
I guess the last thing to check is whether your AC disconnect (2nd picture) is fused or not. If it has a fuse, check if that's blown. Eventually, you'd want to make sure that combiner box is getting power through that 10amp breaker.
Is that on your main panel? If not, there may be a breaker in your main panel for the feed to/from the combiner, which might be off. Did Enphase see your system? It may just be an Internet problem. If so you might need to configure WIFI to your network with its password. Otherwise Ethernet direct to your router requires no login.

EDIT: Based on rereading the thread and looking at all three pictures there is also a solar disconnect between you main panel and the combiner. All three should be turned on. Can you confirm? If done properly you should see the LEDs in the combiner light up. it may take them some time to communicate and all go green. On the door of the combiner is a legend with a description of the color and flashing status to tell you if there are any issues. The breakers on the combiner and the lever on the solar disconnect appear to be on based on the pictures.That should be confirmed and behind the cover on main panel should be a breaker labeled Solar.
Yea. They weren’t really able to help and basically directed me to the installer so they can provide a technician to test system out on site..
I called enphase and they basically told me nothing they can do, and suggested getting the installer out to test the system. Hoping that maybe they just need to ‘jump it’ or perhaps switch out the box. 
I turned the breaker for the panels off and on and nothing changed.
If you don’t know who the install company is, call a local solar company or the previous homeowner.
I feel like I just need to FaceTime a solar pro on Reddit and they could help me more than a random ‘tech’ lol
Have you confirmed that in all three places the breakers or levers are in the ON position? If so, you should see the LEDs light up.
>they could help me more than a random ‘tech’ lol

Anybody who tries to help is going to ask the fundemental question, is the system powered up?  Until the LEDs light up with any color you have not given anybody anything to work with.
Sure. I’ll check again. Seemed like everything was ‘on’
When I spoke with the enphase rep on the phone they mentioned that a technician might need to come out to ‘jump’ the system to start up again. As an option. Tbd
>When I spoke with enphase rep on the phone they mentioned that a technician might need to come out to ‘jump’ the system to start up again

I have never heard of jump starting an Enphase system and I have had several of them over nine years. If you are not seeing any LEDs light up it is either a dead Envoy in the combiner box or no power. If you don't have the tools or skills to diagnose the power issue perhaps an electrician minimum charge might be your best bet. Do you have a way to tell from your utility if there was ever solar production?
I could see in the enphase app that there was production until a couple months ago. Then no readings.
So that leads me to believe a fuse was blown or something.. or like you said maybe something with the combiner box
Does that correlate with what your utility website says? Did production stop at the same time? I'm trying to see if there was production even after the Envoy in the combiner box went bad.
The ones that are cheapest with a warranty that meets the finance partner requirements.
Most solar farms being built in the US today are using 500+ watt panels with the biggest players being Q Cells, JA, Jinko, Canadian Solar, Boviet, Longi, Trina, and First Solar. Older farms are using smaller panels but that's becoming increasingly rare. Canadian Solar makes a bunch of 600+ watt panels but the quality and longevity on those has proved to be lower than many of these others as well as Canadian Solar having some issues financially. At a certain point there is no benefit to higher wattage mods b/c they are just massive. Canadian Solar mods specifically, are huge, like 8 feet long and 90+ pounds so our installation efficiency suffers as well. 

I work in the C&I, Community, and small scale utility (1-30MW) industry and these are what we go with. We rarely design anything with panels below 540W for ground mount systems and would prefer this route on rooftops but even with these we don't go below 445W or so depending on the structural capabilities of the roof.
First Solar has over 40% market share for utility scale projects in the US. Second to them in 2023, I believe, is Q Cells (in the US). 

Outside the US it’s Longi, Jinko, and Trina.
For 1MW projects we’re using Trina 585W now, but we’re considering switching brand to something cheaper
Trina 545 and risen panels and on the last few I’ve completed
Longi, JA, Jinko, AstroEnergy, Waaree, Canadian Solar, VSUN…

Basically any tier 1 solar panel manufacturer will be invited to bid and whoever has the lowest price will be selected.
Some Solar Farms may use 96 cell panels which operate at a higher voltage than 60 or 72 cell panels. They may be using higher voltage inverters and higher voltage strings. I also hear that they use high DC to AC ratios because they are less concerned about clipping and more concerned about keeping their inverters at 100% of capacity longer. Some are adding batteries to reduce economic impact of curtailment which has become more frequent. I think few of those issues translate to rooftop solar.
That username 😂
I'm genuinely curious where you're getting these numbers from. First Solar definitely isn't used in 40% of US projects, maybe this is panels produced in the US rather than used in the US. 

Q cells claims to have the highest market share in the US in terms of panels installed in 2022 with 33.7% of residential projects using them and 17.7% of commercial projects using them. They also claim to have held the #1 market share spot in the US for 5 consecutive years in the commercial space and 18 consecutive quarters in the residential market.
👆🏻this. And they're typically larger panels: 450-500w.
Wood MacKenzie has Q Cells at #1 market share for C/I for Q2 at 38% followed by Trina, Canadian, and Longi. I forget how WoodMac defines C/I but my guess is behind the meter 3 phase interconnect. 

First Solar has 40% utility market share according to public filings. 

Don’t discount the risk of forced labor detainments and tariffs on larger scale projects. China commodity panels are cheaper but no domestic content bonus and high supply chain risk.
They’re typically bigger than that now. I’d expect 2024 to use 550-650W. There are concerns on structural stability of the larger ones so most of the talk has been around the 580W bifacials.
Just what I’m looking for. Thank you both!
[deleted]
That’s within silicon based technologies of which FSLR is excluded (CdTe)
[deleted]
Source link?
[deleted]
Got it. That chart is global shipments. FSLR’s market is dominated by US supply. Only Chinese companies can sell in China (far and away largest global market). And Chinese companies dominate every non trade protected market. 

Hence my delineation above of market share by US vs non US.
I work full time as a service tech and run my own solar repair/cleaning company on the side.

I remove panels for reroofs fairly often. The company I work for charges between $100 to $150 per panel to take down and reinstall. We reuse the rail, but replace all the feet, soladeck and hardware. Sometimes this is negotiated in their contact but I don't know much about that. I took down an 11 panel system by myself last week. Scheduled to put it back up next weekend. I charged them $1500

As I finished typing this I realized you said a leak not a reroof. If there's a leak coming from under the panels, we go out and attempt to fix it. We don't charge the homeowner unless it's determined to be not our fault and we put a ton of time into it
Are you the reason the roof is leaking?
Homeowners insurance has either specified perils or is an open peril policy with exclusions.  Typically a natural disaster or the weight of snow or water would trigger a claim.  A random leak is usually not a qualifier for an insurance claim.
My solar company came by two times to repair leaks. The second time they patched the leak for free and informed me that the roof was going bad. This was a flat roof in a townhome development with an HOA and the HOA had already begun replacing the roofs. Because they had very adequate reserves they were able to schedule a reroof of my building within six months. I did have to remove the panels but the stanchions were left in place and the roofer charged me $25 per stanchion for extra flashing boots which was a very good deal. I was fortunate to find a solar skilled sub contractor to remove and replace the panels and racking on the existing stanchions.
Our solar installer took responsibility for a leak after several years.  Fixed the problem and no leaks since!
If you mean "under my warranty", I've fixed a few, but these were all on flat roofs and no module removal was needed. Whether it's needed or not, if it's my fault, I should cover it, however as an aside I would say about 30% of my callbacks were people throwing everything at the wall to see if they could get a free patch job.

To answer the other part of your question, if I were charging for the experience for whatever reason, it's my per-panel rate (which was $150 last time I had one. I am in a dense urban area.) If I have to take the panels down of the roof, store them, and bring them back up, it's double.

EDIT: lol, downvoted for answering a homeowner question *about pricing* in a professional sub. This place is so fucking dysfunctional.
We had a couple of small leaks that Sunrun fixed but my aunt needs a new roof after installation due to lousy work. She had replaced hers before the solar panels were installed. For various reasons stay away from solar especially Sunrun. Horrible!
Leased/financed panels should be handled by the solar company. The solar company owns those panels.

Cash panels should be handled by homeowners insurance. The homeowner owns those panels.
what are these people doing that they need to reroof on a regular basis? roofs here last for 100's of years and are still fine.
We’re assuming the solar was installed 5 years ago.  Roof has a leak.  We don’t know why….
[deleted]
I don't know man I'm not a roofer but I've always heard shingles have a 25 to 30 year life. Where do you live with 100 year old buildings with solar?

Unless I'm not being clear. I mean shingle replacement, not actually reframing a new roof


UV, lots of temp swings for freeze/thaw, wind and hail can make a roof not last very long. If you live somewhere with hail storms and you have asphalt shingles …. It’s 5-15 years typically. 

Hail storms also take out people’s windows and sometimes siding/cladding. 

Where after you that you can expect 100 year roofs?
What type of roof lasts 100+ years? Here in Phoenix it's generally a 15-20 year cycle because of the heat.
You find the leak and fix it.  Simple, leave solar out of the thought equation.
I just think your stupid
I'm a Dutchie. Shingles explains a bit; they're used for sheds here, houses get roof tiles (like the baked clay stuff). With solar panels it looks something like this: https://www.zonnepanelen.net/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/zonnepanelen-schuin-dak-e1440674007267.jpg
Yea leave the holes in your roof out of the equation!
“Your stupid” instead of “you’re stupid” is some delicious irony. 😆
*you're.

Derp.
That's great but those don't work well in large swaths of America where they experience hail the size of tennis balls frequently that would shatter those roofs.
Southwest of the US uses concrete tile like that. The tile lasts 50-100 years usually but not the underlayment. Our temps can go from near freezing to 120 degrees on a usual basis. Our roads with the sun hitting them easily exceed at times 200 degrees, just to put things in perspective.
If you have a shingle roof you have thousands of holes in your roof. 

Solar attachments are generally reliable if the solar was done well. 

I have had dozens of calls about leaks. Someone nailed the bottom of a vent boot down. Low twitch roof with no water barrier layer.  Messed up foam on those dubious ridge skylights on metal buildings.
Solar people don’t seem to understand how roofs work. Let’s put scores of holes in the roof and assume these fly-by-night operators sealed everything properly. These people have never traced a water leak. They’re the same type of people buying electric cars and are shocked when repair bills are tens of thousands of dollars for a fender bender.
to blanket statement "leave solar out of it" as a possible cause is just shortsighted and dumb.
Are you saying that it's the homeowner's fault for assuming that professionals do professional work?  
Also the cost of the bodywork has absolutely nothing to do with the fuel type of the vehicle.
I think the better comparison would be people who buy an electric vehicle and are shocked when their electric bill goes up. Like, how do you think the car gets its power?
I don’t like his comment but there is some truth behind it. If the battery pack gets damaged during a collision it’s going to be much not expensive to fix because it’s an EV. The same collision in a gas car only damages body panels. 

So you’ll see a relatively light accident result in near total loss because battery pack is compromised. 

You’ll see insurance rates for EVs higher specifically because of this fact.
Well usually your overall bill (gas + electric) go down because electricity will go up by less than your gasoline bill will go down.
Obviously that should happen, but my point was people who forget that their electric bill itself will go up some.
>2 are damaged from removal

Damaged how? Could be an indication of other hidden damage, for example if connectors were ripped out of those two, the rest of the wiring looms could be stressed/stretched and weather-seal compromised.  Same thing if electrically damaged.  If the damage was from being chewed by the dog then the other units are going to be fine.

You can call enphase and transfer the warranty and ownership for monitoring access - check the stuff is not from a leased system or PPA or something that might dispute ownership. It's no different to a second hand car, make sure the title is clear. Were they removed for non payment of a lease or something.....?

As for cost, panel brand etc - all a bit irrelevant, they are what they are and cheap enough at 65c/Watt pre-install but could be had for half that if you offer, you never know.....the labor and permits is going to be the make or break here. If you were purchasing new, someone might say get brand x over brand y, but VSUN + Enphase is fine. Always negotiate on second hand stuff though!

Be prepared for a small extra material/part cost to replace a piece of racking or something that will no doubt be found along the way.  Get consumption monitoring installed while you are at it, the extra parts (if not included in the deal) are around $50.
Not at $6500.   The damage suggests whoever removed them from the roof did NOT know what they were doing.  There may be additional damaged, UNREPAIRABLE connectors. 

**I would offer them $3000 for the entire setup. At that price point you can cover any oopsies and not feel ripped off.**

You also don't know WHY they were removed.  Could have been having problems that you won't discover until you attempt to plug it all in

I attempted to transfer ownership of an SunRun inverter (only needing a new front display) and obtain (25 year!) warranty coverage --- and failed.  It's a $500 boat anchor in my garage now.  They simply ignored, stalled and delayed endlessly.   Similar COULD happen to you. 

Again.  $3000 would be my number.  $100 per panel.  And that, BTW, is what I just paid for some never-used 350 watt panels in Phoenix, off Craigslist.

Perhaps you could find someone to evaluate all the components for you.  An electrician, or a solar guy, moonlighting   Put a meter on all the panels, at least, see if they're putting out 36+ volts in sunlight.

I can't tell you how to test or evaluate the IQ8's  Maybe someone else can.

**Life Lesson:**  Beware of doing biz with "friends of friends."  When things go south relationships can suffer or end.
Enphase will not warranty the micros if they were registered (good chance they were). They may also charge to move the Envoy/combiner to your name. Panels shouldn’t be an issue for warranty.

You will need roof attachments, panel attachments that work with the rails you have, and of course all the wire, conduit, disconnects, interconnection components to make it all work.

Permitting, interconnection can be tricky so see if you can get a local installer to help you.

Best of luck with it all
For about $2500 more you’re in brand new 400’s. Not a slam dunk.. 5-5250 you’ll be ok. 

60c watt for install and incidentals… 

Don’t count on any warranty to hold up..
Those are state of the art microinverters that rarely have problems. Who cares about the warranty? If one goes bad, buy a single new one for $150.  I have no fear of used solar equipment. The racking and mounts should be re used, scraping them is really stupid. They don't wear out. They're just aluminum and stainless steel.
It looks like a steal in my opinion.  Find out what the cousin will charge you to install. If you haven't already grabbed it, do so!
Envoy is registered to an address and likely can’t change.  That’s out.  Micros are no warranty.  Panels are not worth much new.  The rest should be scrapped anyway.  You don’t get a tax credit for used equipment purchases.  So if you bought new, you’d pay 25-30K.  Then tax credits would return 25-50% of that investment.  So maybe 17K out of pocket.  You’ve got 6500 for this equipment, plus 3-4K for inverters, envoy, racking, electrical BOS.  3-5K for installation and permitting.  With a significant chance of unforeseen additional expenses.  So you save a few grand tops but lose a warranty and life expectancy diminished by more than a couple of years.  

This stuff should be priced at $1000.  Delivered.
Eh, it's not a slam dunk deal. The stuff is pretty new so it's not much of a surprise it's not a big discount. It's probably a few thousand cheaper than new. I would guess installing them is going to be about $10,000-$15,000.
I would never do a business transaction with family or friends.
Two things to consider:

A) There is no longer a warranty from Enphase on the equipment.

B) Who the frick is VSUN?
Good price
Thank you all for the suggestions and information. i went ahead and made the deal on the equipment at $2500. after contacting Enphase i was able to get clarification that there would be no warranty, but i could transfer ownership to a new address for $200.

I feel that at $2500 it is a good enough deal to take the risk to get my system started.
I would also discuss any details with any parts that don't function. 
Regardless of who installs, make sure they know what they're doing
Thanks for the info!
The inverters that are broke just have a damaged DC connector from when they were being removed. 

Good thought on checking for a "clear title" I'll look into that.
>You can call enphase and transfer the warranty and ownership for monitoring access - check the stuff is not from a leased system or PPA or something that might dispute ownership. It's no different to a second hand car, make sure the title is clear.

Have they changed the policy on this so warranty can be transferred from one install location to another?
Makes a lot of sense, I will do some more digging for Info, as well as reach out to enphase to see what the transfer looks like if it is even possible.

I feel that my friend's company does know what they are doing, he has built a nice business removing and reinstalling systems, so I'm not too concerned about the rest of the inverters. Obviously there is some concern though. 

The warranty/transfer of ownership is more concerning, I definitely do not want paperweights laying around the house.
Ya, I'm thinking I'll offer $5 and see what happens.
What kind of roof do you have? Install it yourself if it's not a dangerous roof. Research and learn. None of it is that hard. Myself and another guy installed an  18 panel system on my house in two days. Enphase stuff is awesome. If you're scared, hire an electrician for the hard part in the panel on disconnect, etc...
Check how old enphase iq8+ inverters could be. They were hard to find one year ago. Failure rate is tiny for them.
Yeah, that is kinda what I'm feeling with this, I reached out to enphase to see about the transfer and warranty. I'll have a better idea of if I'll proceed after I hear back. 

Thank you for your advice.
You might need better friends, I always try to support my friends and family in their business endeavors. 

I would be buying the equipment from the previous owner, and paying my friend to do the install
VSUN are a tier 1 manufacturer from Japan. You not knowing who they are doesn’t make them bad. They made great modules.
I reached out to enphase to see if that is the case, I'm assuming that you are correct though.

Apparently they make solar panels and are Vietnamese company, I have never heard of them before either (not that I even pretend to be in the know)
Hmm... slightly concerning if they were that rough with them.  Use that as negotiating power maybe.
Is the DC connector just an adapter? They make two versions, one with direct mc4 connection and one that takes an adapter.
Fair point - depends on location.  OP should call support and check, but if there was no enphase warranty for that price I'd still take it! Installation/roof/leaks warranty etc naturally is assumed.
Nah, sorry, I’d never mix business and family.  Someone fixing to lose.
Was an honest ask. They are not popular on the East coast is seems. They are also only 8yrs old and manufactured in Vietnam.
Vsun is listed on many finance company AVL’s…it’s a common panel in the western us… they are fine. Nothing special, nor anything negative on them
Isn't it his buddy that damaged them?
Looks to be the DC negative connector
This is the one that it is.. 
https://enphase.com/store/microinverters/iq8-series/iq8plus-microinverter
Looks like the friend is the company owner rather than the guy on the roof.... doesn't change my concern though - someone was pretty careless taking them down, there are 2 damaged, the rest might be not damaged enough to be obvious.
Oh ok gotcha. Was hoping you just had a damaged adapter, I'd send you one if that was the case
Nope that would be too easy
If you go through with the purchase and need any odds and ends, I can help you out. Things like trunk cable splices, termination caps, skip caps, mc4 heads, etc. I get alot of that stuff for free/cheap
Please add the solar quote flair to all posts about quotes.
Is there a reason they did not make the system bigger? You’re only offsetting 46% of your usage. This should lower the $/kw also.
Very bad quote. 
Keep looking. 
Blue raven direct prices are 20-30% higher than they should be for the product type
Careful of the blue raven install crew in Indiana they are “rough around the edges” and their quality is questionable.
It's personal choice. The most we could get is about 70% of the needed kwh.
While this is financed, it is financed at 10.59%, so it should be almost same as cash. While the small size will likely also increase the price per watt, are there any other adders increasing the price :  ground mount, 30yr extended warranty, tile roof, new mpu, etc??
10.59 means really low dealer fee. I don’t know why there charging you that much
Blue Raven is one of the most legit companies you can buy from. They are usually a little higher than average, but you can't beat their equipment and service. Just look up reviews. 

The offset % is usually not correct as the majority of the time, it is based on square footage of the home, so the reps have something to go off of before showing up.  Once they look at the bill 95% of reps can tell you what size system you need then request a design with that many panels, and the offset doesn't change. 

Getting a larger system would require panels on east and west roofs, which would not perform the same as south facing. More offset isn't always the most beneficial.  

They do not skimp on equipment either. As they have qcell 400w panels and rec 420w panels. And only use enphase for inverters and combiner.
My thoughts are that this system will offset my "gas" bill for my EV plus a little extra (about 1000kwh extra). The company pays 20 months of the loan, I still budget to make the payments on the back end plus what I would budget for "gas". After 20 months that means that about 4-5k of the loan will be paid off, plus the 5k from IRS. That leaves less than 8k to be paid off.
Is that APR the best you could find? Have you checked with your own financial institution?

What modules (solar panels) are they proposing?
4.25% utility escalator…. Eww.
Production guarantee of 2 years only. Is that standard? 

Seems short…
Any suggestions on who to look in to? I called 7 other companies that are local and Noone has returned my call after a week. Blue raven is the only company that has. Not positive but it seems like solar in Indiana is still in its infancy.
I'd love to hear more about your experience with them
Is that because of the added cost of additional capacity?  I agree for what you are getting it’s too expensive.  Keep getting additional bids.
Ya I think he can call a credit union or local bank and try to get better financing for unsecured debt or try and get a heloc
Higher apr will mean a higher payment but significant lower overall cost due to lending fees in most situations. It is typically better to find your own options tho.

That being said, from where I am in AR, this looks expensive for a small system like that.
Came here for this. Disingenuous sales tactic. Power cost inflation over the past 30 years has been 2.4%. Companies like this are using inflation fear to blatantly misrepresent ROI times on their quotes.
Didn’t Indiana electricity price go down between 2022 and 2023? If anything, a 2% escalator seems more likely. Though zero might be the better conservative analysis.
The escalator is a 20-year average of power company rates. Not an escalator you find in ppa. Blue Raven gets historical records from every power company and figures out the real 20-year average. Of you think 4% is high Ohio has been hit with 20%+ in some cities just this year. And east side of Michigan saw 14.8% increase this October.
No. Usually 30years
Production guarantee from blue raven is 2 years. After two years the production guarantee falls on the manufacturer.  Which is pretty standard. The initial 2 years is to ensure the production estimates are accurate, after the first 2 years if you don't get the production is based on equipment failure.
You're probably getting fewer callbacks because you're putting on a tiny system. You could consider an few more panels to offset more of your bill and make it interesting to someone to do. 
They are making a % based profit, really, at the end of the day.  So you need the total to get higher
Have you tried contacting “Solar Energy Solutions”?
I have some options but cannot share here as a comment
Where ya located?
Quite possibly, but if the amount being financed is too high of a price in the first place, then that's not the problem. Want to make sure your price for the goods is first set the way you want it, then choose how you're looking to pay for it be it alone, lease, personal financing, Etc
Over a systems 30 year life that 374%. In Indiana you are not getting 1:1 net metering, so make sure that is factored in, which might be why they are under sizing. The best solar setup is the one you can write a check for.
Ya his price sucks and so does his finance haha
The benefit to this type of financing is thst is is not secured by the home like a second mortgage or such is, and normally they will reamortize for free after you put in the tax credit if you decide to. The problem is that it with it being not secured by home, the rate is normally substantially higher than the 8% going rate on mortgages right now. For the same as cash price that is.
So there are some pros and some cons to doing it this way, once you have a price you like of course.
Nice clean install.  May she produce you a ton of energy.
Be ready to stay on dominion. I'm talking 1 call a day for 3 days, then as many as it takes to get them out
Just wondering how difficult was it to run in interior wall?  Did you run conduit in Interior walls?  Did you have to cut into drywall to access the conduit?
Thank you! Inspections on Monday and Tuesday, then just have to wait on the dominion power to switch out the meter
Thank you! I will be sure to do that.
We were adding on to the L side of the house so there was new construction which allowed us to run the conduit through the interior walls, otherwise, it would have required cutting drywall. I just didn’t want to see conduit running along the roof or down the outside of the house.
Yes
Dallas here as well.    Yes it is allowed generally, although each plan may have their own rules.   And yes, for many people on solar the free night plan works out better than the solar buyback plan.   And with free nights you may not need that battery and get way faster payback
Yes. Depending on the utility you can either send it back to the grid and get no payout whatsoever. Or, set your inverter for home use only and it will not export anything.
Yes. Depending on the utility you can either send it back to the grid and get no payout whatsoever. Or, set your inverter for home use only and it will not export anything.  You will have to look into the specifics of each plan your provider offers.
I'm just north of Dallas (in Prosper).  I am on the Just Energy Free Nights plan.  Once you sign up on the plan, you add the buyback ($0.03/kWh) by sending them a "Distributed Renewal Generation" form along with your interconnection agreement.

  
I have my Enphase system setup to charge the batteries from the grid between the hours of 9pm and 7am (the free period).  It's working out beautifully.  Solar gets me through the daylight hours...battery gets me from sundown to 9pm.  Charge batteries and EVs at night.
I don't know about the building codes and utility rules in Texas. However in California there is no utility rule or reason you cannot install a solar system with batteries which never feeds back to the grid. You have to pull a building permit.
A free night plan, that seems perfect. Maybe SDG&E will start that.
This is very common where I live. You can do it with most modern inverters including Sol-Ark, Enphase, and Tesla Powerwall. You can still pull from grid when you need it and if you are oversized  we are  still allowed to waste sunlight. Electric company should make it worth it for you to sell them your extra. If they don't then don't.
Only if your on-peak rate is $2.00/kWh

There are some EV plans that only charge around $0.15 from midnight to 6:00, but that's the closest to *free* SDG&E will ever get.
Give it 3 years and it will be $2/kWh
>They are tied into 4 strings of 8.

This means you've got 8 panels in series. Your mpp voltage should be 39.67x8=317v.

Everything you said sounds normal. It's all correct.
Looks right to me. However the max input current for each mppt terminal is different by that much?  Haven’t dealt with Fronius in a while but usually mppts have equivalent capacity.
Thank you for your reply! 

Even if i only have 2MPPs, right? I imagined that it would be double that since 2 strings would go to each mpp
>
Even if i only have 2MPPs, right? I

Presumably each MPPT has two strings in parallel. Your voltage readings are consistent with that assumption.
Thank you!
So if my electrician just told me that the strings are in series to the MPPT? What does that tell me?
The voltage proves eight are in series and each of those groups of eight are must be in parallel.  Your electrician is correct but he may not have been complete enough to explain that each string is in parallel with another string.
Your electrician doesn't know what they're talking about. If they were in series, they would be 1 string.
To those participating in the comments, due to the company or person mentioned in the title, this is a reminder of the subreddit rule: 

> **Crusading is not welcomed here** - If your sole or majority participation is to promote or denigrate one company in particular (or the person behind it), it may result in a ban. These kinds of participants too often resort to hyperbolic comments and antagonism leading to personal attacks as well as violations of other rules. If you are lying in wait for posts or comments mentioning a specific company (or person behind it), you are likely the concern.

Promoting a company you are affiliated with or profit from, giving out referral codes which you benefit from, as well as using the sub solely to engage in targeted hate are things you need to avoid here. This sub is for a diverse discussion of solar, not a singular focus on your opinion about a company / person.  If you simply have to obsess, there are other subreddits for each point of view about the person or company you feel the need to focus on.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/solar) if you have any questions or concerns.*
what did they do wrong? It's not easy to hook up panels incorrectly to an inverter.

did they oversize the panels by too much so it overloads the inverter?

maybe you can get an electrician to fix it or do it with help from r/SolarDIY

dunno about legal stuff, sorry.
4 months to install is light speed for Tesla. My neighbor and I waited over a year for ours after they ghosted us for several months at a time. My neighbor had problems with his system, they couldn't figure out the issue for months. In the end they installed a new string inverter.

Can you calculate a $ amount that you're out? I'd file a small claims court case for breach of contract/breach of warranty. Tesla solar is a terrible company.
Have they acknowledged these issues in writing? If not, get it in writing.

Then **call a lawyer.** If Tesla is repeatedly refusing to address what in cars would be classified as a Lemon, I'm sure a lawyer can help you out. Worse comes to worst, you pay a couple of hundred bucks, and a lawyer says, "Nope, nothing you can do" - it would suck, but it's always possible. Otherwise, they can probably help get Tesla's ass in gear by sending them a few demand letters.

If nothing else, a lawyer may be able to get Tesla to come out and pull the system down and refund all your costs. Basically make you "whole" again. Because even if Tesla does come out and fix the system now, clearly you've got a lemon of a system and it's just a matter of time.
That’s what happens when you choose the lowest bidder. Make sure to leave a bad review!
I worked in compliance/oversight for solar companies for years and have heard hundreds of tesla complaints (and others, but this is a tesla thread)  - your best bet is get a solar contractor unrelated to tesla to evaluate your situation and fix it.  Also do the 'get a lawyer involved' process that's upvoted below, but if you want things fixed and working in a reasonable time frame you will have to bite the bullet and pay $$ for a contractor, then hope to get some of the money back down the road from Tesla.  Hope, but don't plan, it'll be uphill. Sorry for your experience, good luck!
Just curious, but how big is the system?
Read the contract you signed. My contract states in the first year, if production is under X% of what was quoted, then they'll compensate for the loss.
This is timely given Elon’s latest interview.
How wrong? It shouldn’t pass the final inspection.
Tesla is world renowned for over promising, under delivering(when they deliver at all), and having shitty customer service. 

If you have the poor installation admittance in writing, get a third party to fix it, then send Tesla the bill. Expect to go to court.
All you need to do is document what is wrong and call them back and email the rep. Repeat all the details every time you contact them so they remember and actually plant a proper resolution. You might need to get into contact with the arbitration department as well. I’ve found that if you don’t document it and send the exact issue to them yourself it doesn’t seem to be recalled by the support reps. Call them up 2x a week until resolved. Get all the details from the person coming out and write it down in a google doc with their name title and date and time they were out to document it all for arbitration. Do email and phone so there is a text record as well.

At least they aren’t bankrupt like many peoples solar installers, imagine that scenario where you have to pay out of pocket to get help beyond just not generating.

4 months from order to install is fantastic for any installer around here. Lucky! Solar isn’t an Uber eats order lol, it’s a real project
"Go fuck yourself" - Elon Musk.
That sucks man I’m sorry. Tesla is the worst when it comes to solar. I love their cars, but they don’t have solar down yet. 

YouTube MSNBC’s interview about Tesla solar..you’re not the only one.
4 months is good.  My contacted was signed Oct 2017 and system was installed April 2019.   I even let them run my credit again because the original 6 months that the loan contract was good for passed.  I shouldn't have did it, but I did because I got a pretty good deal at the time.  When they called me the SECOND time to run my credit for the THIRD time I said *hell no*.  Part of my issue was I was getting Powerwalls and this was after Irma hit Puerto Rico and the Model 3 was being built.   This is when I said finish it before the loan contract expires or cancel it, and they finally got the ball rolling.

After installing it they never installed a disconnect sign and 6 weeks went by before it was fixed.  This was only found to be an issue because I called my electric company to find out what the hold up was.  I ended up complaining a bunch and they asked if I wanted $255 check or a $300 Walmart gift card.  I told them send me $255 to cover the first payment for my loan since I was being billed for something I couldn't use.   I should have fought for 2 months, but I was fine with just having 1 month paid.

You need to complain and tell them you want re-imbursement for full or partial credit for months the system was/is down to cover the loan at minimum.
I been installing over a decade. Worked for Tesla for 5 years. They have terrible middle management and customer service. What state? And did they say what they messed up in the first place? too many panels on a string or incorrectly setting up parallel circuits? We are talking panels correct? Not solar roof?

Their main problem is they are so driven to make the next best thing they are never in the same place long enough to realize the equity created by what they have already produced. 

Also shareholders 

Also Elon
My parents transformer box ( not familiar with anything electrical related). I’ll call it the solar regulator box since idk the name. Maybe someone can educate me on the name?

Anyways. It caught fire and burn the outside wall and partial roof of my parents house due to incorrect installation from the techs. Tesla acknowledges this but they didn’t pay a dime for repairs. Came out of my parents pocket. They lawyered up and Tesla gave my parents a “discount” on the bill. Customer service sucks.
Was it Tesla or a sub? If it’s a sub try going directly to them. 
Solar roof or traditional? If it’s the roof good luck. That’s a bit more exotic. 
Where is the source of failure? If you know who the OEM is you can try and go that route. 
What state are you in? Many states have consumer protection laws. File a complaint with your States regulatory office that covers consumer protection (generally is received by a legal Dept). 
Finally, if the system was financed try and go via the finance company holding the note. If it’s a lease you have more leverage than a loan.
bUt I GoT a GoOd DeAl On It 🫠🫠🫠
This is your 2nd post about this. I also waited months to get installed but the moment i had 1 issue the service guy was back in a few days. I feel like most people who wait weeks for service just dont have the right channels of communication. A couple of phone calls or text/emails to the right person will get you taken care of sooner than later. You know what you were getting into when you ordered tesla or failed to do your research.
Musk scammed you.
With the money their system costs you could have paid your electricity bill 10 years in advance
I dunno go fuck yourself or something - CEO
Lowest bidder
Small Claims Court for tho max amount. Sue for breech of Implied Warranty of Merchantability.
Shocker......call the electric company with your concerns unfortunately your sol
Where you located?
Sounds like it's time to go to the contractor's board, with an attorney.
State attorney general
One reason a PPA is not a terrible move. I assume you are mad because you aren't going to be paid out for the difference, at my old giant company we spent so much money compensating people for down time.
Root...do you mean its a grounding issue?
Solar lulz
Elon might have some choice words for you being a customer and all.
The problem is you went through Tesla. Don’t do that to yourself.
Document document document. Get everything in writing twice with a read receipt or they will pretend it never happened. 

I've been working with residential solar for almost 20 years now and many contractors, not just tesla, will hire whatever untrained roof crews to slap equipment together, and then hope the actual electricians can figure it out later. 

I've seen projects fail because a squirrel chewed the wiring, because a wire was nicked inside the conduit and was arcing internally, because a wire plug was not clipped in all the way, because the ground wiring was loose, bc the wrong modules were delivered to the site (more amps = fried wires), bc the modules were wired incorrectly, bc the inverter was wired incorrectly, bc the house grounding was bad, bc paperwork was not filled out correctly with the utility... in addition to inverters and batteries just kicking the bucket randomly after 3 weeks for no reason. 

There are so many little things that can go wrong, you literally can not expect to scale an electrical company that also does roof work to a national scale without expecting some hiccups, if not complete failure. Electrical work is a skill that is hard or impossible to reproduce at a corporate level. 

Anyway- find out who's electrical license installed your system and threaten to turn them into the state licensing board. You should start to get some answers really quick. It should be on your building permit. Chances are high they don't work for tesla anymore and might be glad to join a lawsuit on your side.
Had a similar experience. My system kept breaking down and Tesla would take about a month each time to come fix it. In my case, it was the mid circuit interrupters (MCI) on the roof that kept shorting. Whenever one shorted, the WHOLE system would stop producing. Every time, they would come and simply replace the MCIs (little black boxes) with new ones (exact same model). And every time they would short after about a month. The last time they came, they simply REMOVED the MCIs. Since then, my system has been working ok (about 6 months). As I understand it, the purpose of the MCI is the shut down an individual solar panel when it is having issues, so that the rest of the system can keep working. However, if one of the MCIs itself actually breaks down, the whole system stops working.

In any case, I hope my system will be more reliable now. I have never been compensated by Tesla for the down time. I will also note that they seem to make it harder and harder to schedule service appointments when your system breaks down. It used to be as easy as a phone call and they would schedule something right away (they would come about 3 weeks later). Recently, they added a level 2 escalation of your issue, which takes about 10 days and during this time you just wait for them to acknowledge a service appointment needs to get scheduled. After this delay, they finally schedule the appointment (again they’d come about a month later). Also, in typical Tesla fashion, they once cancelled my appointment without reason. I had to reschedule it, which delayed things even further.
Not sure on the specifics but it’s set up in a way where my system is susceptible to overloads in the grid. The last technician said it for sure will keep failing until my system gets properly wired but it will require a huge overhaul and ~2 days of work.
It would be easy to use the incorrect hardware, such as galvanized nuts on copper terminals or incorrect crimped hardware on cables, use the incorrect amount of torque to set nuts, use the incorrect wires, etc.

It is hard to oversize panels for an inverter unless they made a series connection that just goes way overvoltage.

I would agree with getting a third party to fix it or going DIY...
No answer from the OP.  That's interesting right?
I live in NC and right now I'm hearing the same thing from so many neighbors and friends: companies are really quick to install the panels, but it takes forever to connect them. I won't slag a solar company on here, but I know two families preparing litigation because it's been months and no one will take their calls.
THIS IS THE WAY!
FTFY
My company in New England gets calls daily hoping we can work on their system that someone else installed but are now out of business. We don’t have the capacity, despite having a full service department. It’s going to be tough for those who went with the cheapest over thinking of their array as a 35-40 year relationship.
Hawaii. As for specifics I have more details in a response above. And yes solar panels, battery, and inverter all Tesla branded. No solar roof.
Hawaii, all Tesla branded equipment.
Hawaii, all Tesla branded equipment.
That is about the best to be expected out of any solar conversion.  Sadly.  Wish it was 5, then it'd be a no brainer.
You need specifics if you are going to pursue legal remedy - likely from an independent electrician familiar with solar. Documentation is king.
but which of those mistakes would be hard to fix and cause multiple failures? especially failure of inverter 3 times in 30 months...

even blank copper with galvanized nuts left in rain would survive a few years and if those cause an error the fix should be obvious, quick, cheap and last **forever.** so this can't be it IMO.

if an inverter fails 3 times in 30 months it's either grossly overloaded or a generally malfunctioning device or maybe in a really bad spot and overheating. all those things should be almost impossible tho...
there is an answer now, not everyone lives in reddit...
Did Tesla install with W2 employees or sub it out?
Tesla branded doesn’t necessarily mean Tesla made it.
Last year with low interest rates and high utility rates some people saw 5 year paybacks. Now it’s more 7-10 in my area
They could have caused a different issue each time.

But I would agree that cheap hardware/manufacturing processes seem more likely.
If OP has described the situation accurately then I would think grossly overloaded system is the only possible cause.

And more precisely it must be only just grossly overloaded because the system only occasionally shuts down.
yep, op confirmed overload issues
Price not bad, I would get the installer to upgrade that inverter in the quote to the energy hub version of the se10000 so you are future ready (battery, generator, EV hookup).
Who did you use? I had 25 REC 405 panels with 7600 inverter and you definitely won the bid by a good 6-7k. Nice job
Solid price and it becomes a very good price if the installer does good work.
I’m in seacoast NH. All the quotes I get is between 2.70 (Tesla) to  over 3.4 per watt before tax credits. 

I’m giving up on solar for now until the market price can be more reasonable like in Texas and other places. Or wait till project Solar shows up at 1/2 price.
Sounds like a ReVision proposal. We went with them for a 58 panel ground-mount installation; their work is solid.
Nah, I used Maine Solar. Revision said straight up theyd be more. They also lied and said they couldnt fit 25 panels when MS said they could. Also tried to steer me to their community solar. Been told that that's what they want to focus on in the future. 

Revision rubs me the wrong way with how much they overcharge everything---heat pumps, water heaters, etc. No doubt they do good work.
I got a quote from Maine Solar and it wasn't significantly different from ReVision. And no one tried to pitch community solar; I didn't know that was an option (not that I would have been interested anyway). Our solar installation was completed October 8th of this year, FYI.

They did both solar and heat pumps for us. There are some things that could have gone better, but in the end everything looks good and it works as expected.
I've always wondered if rapid shutdown/disconnect means are required for solar panels installed on a utility building or shed that's nearby a home that's occupied.  Say, I put up a pole barn to store stuff in, mount panels on that, along with an inverter.  Then run conduit to the residence where the meter, standby generator (and transfer switch) and load panels are installed.  If I installed a disconnect for the AC power coming from the utility building, does that cover it?  And a DC disconnect at the inverter in the other building?
Rapid shutdown is not required on ground mount
The way I interpret the code, rapid shutdown is required for any solar DC voltage greater than 30 volts coming into a home. So really my main question is what rapid shutdown system is compatible with the ecoflow batteries?
If you are installing panels on a ground mount, don't bother with rapid shutdown. 

Is this system getting permitted and inspected? If so, then ask the people giving you the permits since they get to decide what is safe. If not, then don't bother with rapid shut down at all. 

Rapid shutdown isn't needed in most parts of the world and everything works out just fine.
Not sure about your juridiction, but generally it's to protect from exposure to DC. If the inverter is at the solar array you're fine.
My interpretation is that if solar panels are installed on a roof, rapid shutdown is required to protect firefighters that may be called upon to put out a fire.
i know for sure that ground mounts don’t require rapid shutdown in my area, but i am unsure about barns or sheds. we generally install systems that have integrated rapid shutdown no matter what.
What’s ground mount got to do with this entire post…?
I see 690.12 exception number one: Ground mounted PV system circuits that enter buildings, of which the sole purpose is to house PV system equipment, shall not be required to comply with 690.12.

But this house that the PV system circuits are entering, are not for the sole purpose of housing PV system equipment.

The raceway will be coming from a ground mounted array and entering into the home.

*Edit: I believe providing a disconnect on the outside of the house for the conductors that enter the home would suffice. Any thoughts?
This installation is in the United States. We follow the national electrical code. We are moving to the 2023 NEC in this municipality.
In this instance the solar array and inverter are about 150 feet apart.
Because code is different for ground mount?
The portion of the code that I was considering was 690.12 Rapid Shutdowns of PV Systems on Buildings. 

In my opinion, 690.12 only refers to PV systems ON buildings. 

The informational note in the 2023 national electric code handbook states, "Firefighters must contend with elements of PV system that remain energized after the service disconnect is opened. This rapid shutdown requirement reduces the potential for shock within 30 seconds of activation of shutdown."

My interpretation is that this section is relevant to firefighters on a rooftop trying to put out a fire. As such, would not apply to a ground mounted array.

I could be wrong, and am open to input.
An outside disconnect would do it
Sure but typical Ecoflow installations aren't getting inspected.
I know. But what does GM have to do with a solar generator that isn’t a stationary system that’s hard wired in? Both the solar and battery are not fixed, and not covered by homes or ground mount parts of the code, or even inspected at all.
Yes.
Your ECOFLOW is a movable battery. It doesn’t need to be inspected. What you connect to it is your own decision. 

The smart panel needs to be inspected. Chances are you won’t even charge the battery while it’s connected to your home. 

Case closed IMO.
Because people can and do construct ground mount or even roof top PV arrays for their solar generators?
In the United States, solar panels and conductors installed on a roof have national code requirements, solar panels and conductors on ground mounted arrays also have code requirements.
In the United States, the solar panels and conductors will also need to be inspected as the voltage can exceed 50 Volts. This installation is a permanent ground mounted array using multiple solar panels feeding an underground raceway that leads to some Delta Pros in a basement next to a Smart Home Panel.
Do you understand the requirement for rapid shut down? Why it’s there? 

It’s to deenergize the system for first responders. ECOFLOW products are basically used to take camping with you. The max is 150V - which is like 3-4 panels. 

OP does not need module level rapid shutdown because this isn’t a permanent array.
This is probably something to put *in the actual post*. 

Rapid shut down is not needed on ground mount systems.
Go read up the specificafion for ecoflow delta pro ultra. It supports string up to 450v. Anything over 80v needs a rapid shutdown. Go read the code.
In this situation, the customer wants a permanent ground array run to their Delta Pros in their basement.
I think it's important to point out that the conductors will still need a disconnect on the outside of the house.
https://websiteoss.ecoflow.com/cms/upload/2022/10/12/1312845623_1665543468829.pdf

Lucky op has the delta pro (as stated in their post). 150V - as I said before. 

> 690.12(A&B) Rapid Shutdown of PV Systems on Buildings.

Right in the title. *On* buildings. 

> PV system circuits installed on or in buildings shall include a rapid shutdown function

Again. On or in. It’s not a permanent install, so it’s neither. 

So, no module level RSD is required for a ground mount system. No module level RSD is needed for systems that aren’t actually permanent. 

https://www.electricallicenserenewal.com/Electrical-Continuing-Education-Courses/NEC-Content.php?sectionID=379.0#:~:text=690.12%20Rapid%20Shutdown%20of%20PV%20Systems%20on%20Buildings.&text=(2)%20Controlled%20conductors%20shall%20be,between%20any%20conductor%20and%20ground.
I see Rapid Shutdown requirements for roof mounted solar in 2023 code is now 30V for conductors over a meter away from the panels.
I agree. A disconnect would need to be provided outside the house to remove voltage from the conductors that are IN the home. But, I see rapid shut down as outside the purview of this NEC 2023 article 690.12
We are saying the same thing. Ground mount doesnt need rapid shutdown. Rooftop install does unless less than 80v per string. Ecoflow delta pro can take up to 150v and delta pro ultra (which is asked in their OP) can take up 450
ground mount? I wish I had the land to have done this.

not an expert... so just my 2 cents...

I can only share the pricing I got from tesla for my roof mounted system

cost: 81K

location: MA

24Kwh dc system, 60 X 400w qcells

4 telsa powerwalls

2 tesla inverters for 15.4kwh ac output.

&#x200B;

for ground mounts, unless you got weird shading issues, I dont understand the use of micro inverters? the enphase IQ8 inverter can only output 240 watts continuously on a 550W panel? even if you meant IQ8 series but their biggest and baddest inverter is still 380w continuous output. maybe the 550W panels are really 400W+ panels but are "bifacial" then enphase pairs better. a solark 15K or similar string inverter might do a better job and allow you to just buy server rack batteries if you have any interest. enphase you will be stuck with their daylight backup and or expensive batteries assuming you have any interest in either.
Looks very good considering it’s a ground mount
It’s a good price
Thanks chrisman!   

Good points.  I looked, and they are bifacial panels.  No intention of using batteries.  Appreciate you drawing attention to that, I learned something else today.
If all 3 panel options are exact same price to you, get the REC.
I would get the sol ark for its functionality and DIY batteries, or pay an electrician to install them if you're not good with diy electrical.

Lifepo is down to $300/kwh if you skip the large retail brands.
Sol-Ark is great but I would not get the eFlex unless you need an outdoor rated battery. They have too high a power tare.  Pytes would be a quality, lower cost equivalent. Homegrid would be an easier similar price point product that is easy to install. Endurenergy has similar parts to the eFlex but a closer relationship to Sol-Ark. Personally I like Pylontech but they don't have much distribution in the USA yet.  


Neovolta... I really don't know much about. I always suggest kicking the tires of the manufacturer re. USA presence. Neovolta's HQ looks like a 1000 sq ft shared distribution warehouse. Sol-Ark's HQ is two buildings that look 10x larger than neovolta as a comparison. Looking at the inverter specs, you can backup your whole 200A panel with the Sol-Ark but not with the NeoVolta. Probably can't run both AC units in backup mode without Sol-Ark's (not yet released) load management controller.
Silfab SIL-410BG for $4,000 less. I have Sifab 370 on one system and they are not premium. I have Panasonic EVPV400HK on another. Both perform as specified.
Rec is best value from those options - degradation efficiencies and low light
I'd go REC, not sure why but REC panels seem to do much better in low light conditions. The only thing good about Panasonics are the little rain channel in most of the frames good for carports.
What differentiates Sol-Ark?
What about the manufacturers still being in business for the warranty lifespan?
Sol ark are hybrid inverters so they can go on or off grid via a built in automatic transfer switch.

If the power goes out, your solar keeps working.  99% of solar in grid connected situations stops working when power goes out.

They also have inputs for generators and batteries.
Thank you for sharing your experience.
Your welcome.  If you haven't joined solar DIY, there is a wealth of knowledge to be gained in that sub, even if you aren't a DIY person.  Will Prowse on YouTube has a bunch of great equipment reviews if you want to go down a rabbit hole. :)
These are classic symptoms of incorrectly installed SunPower consumption CTs. The mySunPower app is wrong and you're not actually consuming that much.

In reality you're exporting over 4 kW, and PG&E has their own, accurate meter and doesn't rely on SunPower's data at all, so you won't be overcharged or undercharged. The NEM 2.0 agreement you signed doesn't place any restrictions on your export.

I'm guessing you still want your SunPower data to be correct for your own information, so get SunPower back out to fix your installation.
today is cloudy and my solar is producing 1.3 kW. and it is saying I'm consuming 1.2 kW. but yesterday on a sunny day it will say I'm consuming 3 kW. nothing is different from yesterday and today. the weather is 60 degrees I keep my heat off. I blame sunpower.
There is a setting in my Victron inverter that limits the amount of KW that I can send to the grid, at the moment it is 2 KW, the upper limit is 5 KW but then the cooling fan of the inverter runs at full blast, your inverter may have the same settings also
>The NEM 2.0 agreement you signed doesn't place any restrictions on your export.

Correct, the only limit is based on the size of your inverter(s). Can you access the PG&E website and confirm how much your system is actually producing? The data may be delayed by a day or two.
Your inverter is SE3800, means it is 3.8kW at 240v.  That's where clipping comes in, the size of your inverter.  Inverters can go a little tiny bit higher based on voltage, which is where you see 3.98, which means you are probably closer to 248v rather than 240v (it's normal to be high in many parts of the US) - it's still 16A, the inverter's maximum.
Looks like the max AC output of that inverter is 3800 watts. Safe to say that’s where you will clip. https://www.solaredge.com/sites/default/files/se-hd-wave-single-phase-inverter-datasheet-na.pdf
That is a DC to AC ratio of ,1.35 to 1. Depending on tilt, azimuth and location that ratio might produce more on an annual basis than a lower ratio.
[Here](https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/3858309/AuroraSolarBlog_October2017/Images/inverter-clipping-graph--final-.png) is a graphic that illustrates what happens with higher DC to AC ratios. In this case the ratio is 1.34 to one. The ratios are not shown on the graphic but clipping increases as the DC ratio increases but tilt, orientation and location have a lot to do with it as well, so there is no magic number. I have had systems with ratios as high at 1.5 to 1 and they performed well. As you can see in the graphic, the amount of clipping represented by the grey area at the top is more than compensated by the amount of extra generation represented by the green area on each side of the curve. The optimum DC to AC ratio is the one that optimizes annual production.

[https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/3858309/AuroraSolarBlog\_October2017/Images/inverter-clipping-graph--final-.png](https://cdn2.hubspot.net/hubfs/3858309/AuroraSolarBlog_October2017/Images/inverter-clipping-graph--final-.png)
I had a feeling that was the reason but wasn't sure since I was not expecting it to be above 3.8, appreciate the quick reply!